The  Haryana  Public  Premises  and  Land  (Eviction  and  Rent  Recovery)  Act, 

1972 

Act  24  of  1972 


Keyword(s): 

Estate,  Premises,  Public  Premises,  Rent 


DISCLAIMER:  This  document  is  being  furnished  to  you  for  your  information  by  PRS 
Legislative  Research  (PRS).  The  contents  of  this  document  have  been  obtained  from  sources 
PRS  believes  to  be  reliable.  These  contents  have  not  been  independently  verified,  and  PRS 
makes  no  representation  or  warranty  as  to  the  accuracy,  completeness  or  correctness.  In 
some  cases  the  Principal  Act  and/or  Amendment  Act  may  not  be  available.  Principal  Acts 
may  or  may  not  include  subsequent  amendments.  For  authoritative  text,  please  contact  the 
relevant  state  department  concerned  or  refer  to  the  latest  government  publication  or  the 
gazette  notification.  Any  person  using  this  material  should  take  their  own  professional  and 
legal  advice  before  acting  on  any  information  contained  in  this  document.  PRS  or  any  persons 
connected  with  it  do  not  accept  any  liability  arising  from  the  use  of  this  document.  PRS  or  any 
persons  connected  with  it  shall  not  be  in  any  way  responsible  for  any  loss,  damage,  or  distress 
to  any  person  on  account  of  any  action  taken  or  not  taken  on  the  basis  of  this  document. 


1972  : Haryana  Act  24]  public  premises  and  land 

(eviction  and  rent  recovery) 


135 


THE  HARYANA  PUBLIC  PREMISES  AND 
LAND  (EVICTION  AND  RENT  RECOVERY) 
ACT,  1972 

(Act  No.  24  of  1972) 

Table  op  Contents 

Sections 

L Short  title,  extent  and  commencement. 

2.  Definitions, 

3t  Un- authorised  occupation  of  public  premises. 

4.  Issue  of  notice  to  show  cause  against  order  of  eviction. 

5.  Eviction  of  unauthorised  persons. 

6.  Disposal  of  property  left  on  public  premises 
by  unauthorised  occupants. 

7.  Power  to  recover  rent  or  damages  in  respect 
of  public  premises  as  arrears  of  land  revenue. 

8.  Power  of  Collector. 

9.  Appeals. 

10.  Finality  of  orders. 

11.  Offences  and  penalty. 

12.  Power  to  obtain  information. 

13.  Liability  of  heirs  and  legal  representatives. 

14.  Recovery  of  rent,  etc.  as  arrears  of  land  revenue. 

15.  Bar  of  jurisdiction. 

16.  Protection  of  action  taken  in  good  faith. 

(7.  Power  to  make  rules. 

IS.  Repeal. 

19.  Validation. 


1972  : Haryana  Act  24]  public  premises  and  land  137 

(eviction  and  rent  recovery) 

'THE  HARYANA  PUBLIC  PREMISES  AND  LAND 
{EVICTION  AND  RENT  RECOVERY) 

- ACT,  1972 

(Haryana  Act  No.  24  of  1972) 

[Received  the  assent  of  the  President  of  India  on  the 
12th  October,  1972,  and  was  first  published  in  the 
Haryana  Government  Gazette  (Extraordianry) 
of  the  9th  November,  1972. ] 


1 

2 

3 

4 

Year 

No. 

Short  title 

Whether  repealed  or  otherwise 
affected  by  legislation 

1972 

24 

The  Haryana 
Public  Premises 
&amp; Land  (Eviction 
Sc  Rent  Recovery) 
Act,  1972 

i 

Amended  by  Haryana  Act  l of  19B0* 
Amended  by  Haryana  Act  16  of  19833 
Amended  by  Haryana  Act  15  of  1986* 

AN 


ACT 

to  provide  for  the  eviction  of  unauthorised  occupants  from  public 
premises  and  for  certain  incidental  matters. 

Be  it  enacted  by  the  Legislature  of  the  State  of  Hay  ana  in  the 
Twenty-third  year  of  the.  Republic  of  India  as  follows 

1.  (I)  This  Act  may  be  called  the  Haryana  Public  Premises  and 
Land  (Eviction  and  Rent  Recovery)  Act,  1972. 

(2)  It  extends  to  the  whole  of  the  Stale  of  Haryana. 


1.  For  statement  of  objects  and  reasons,  see  Haryana  Government  Gazette 
( Extraordinary )f  1972,  page  955. 

2.  For  statement  of  objects  and  reasons,  see  Haryana  Government  Gazette 
( Extraordinary ),  dated  the  1 0-9- 1 979  page  1580, 

3.  For  statement  of  objects  and  reasons,  see  Haryana  Government  Gazette 
(Extraordinary),  dated  the  5th  September,  1983T  page  1178. 

4.  For  statement  of  objects  and  reasons,  see  Haryana  Government  Gazette 
(Extraordinary),  dated  the  J 9-2- 19 86  page  240. 


Short  title, 
extent  and 
commence- 
ment. 


138 


Definitions. 


public  premises  and  land  [1972  : Haryana  Act  24 
(eviction  and  rent  recovery) 

(3)  It  shall  be  deemed  to. have  come  into  force  on  the  10th 
day  of  August,  1959  except  sections  11,  18  and  19  which  shall  come 
into  force  at  once. 

2,  In  this  Act,  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, — 

(a)  "Collector"  means  the  Collector  of  the  district,  and 
includes  any  other  officer  appointed  by  the  State 
Government  for  performing  the  functions  of  the 
Collector  under  this  Act ; 

(b)  "estate"  has  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  the  Punjab 
Land  Revenue  Act,  1887  ; 

(c)  "premises"  means  any  land,  whether  used  for 
agricultural  or  non-agricultural  purposes,  or  any 
building  or  part  of  a building  and  includes, — 

(i)  the  garden,  grounds  and  out-houses,  if  any, 
appertaining  to  such  bui  lding  or  part  of  a building; 
and 

(it)  any  fittings  affixed  to  such  building  or  part  of  a 
building  for  the  more  beneficial  enjoyment 
thereof; 

(d)  "prescribed"  means  prescribed  by  rules  made  under 
this  Act ; 

(e)  "public  premises"  means  any  premises  belonging  to, 

or  taken  on  lease  or  requisitioned  by,  or  on  behalf  of, 
the  State  Government,  or  requisitioned  by  the 
competent  authority  under  the  Punjab  Requisitioning 
and  Acquisition  of  Immovable  Property  Act,  1953, 
and  includes  any  premises  belonging  to  any  ‘[local 
authority,  or  District  Soldiers,  Sailors  and  Airmen's 
Board]  J[or  any  university  established  by  law]  3[  or 
any  Corporation  or  Board  owned  or  controlled  by  the 
Stale  Government  ;]  ___  • 

(/)  "rent”  in  relation  to  any  public  premises,  means  the 
consideration  payable  periodically  for  the  authorised 
occupation  of  the  premises,  and  includes — 

(i)  any  charge  for  electricity,  water  or  any  other 
services  in  connection  with  the  occupation  of  Lhe 
premises, 


1.  Substituted  by  Haryana  Act  1 of  1980. 

2.  Inserted  by  Haryana  Act  16  of  1983. 

3.  Inserted  by  Haryana  Act  15  of  1986. 


1972  : Haryana  Act  24]  public  premises  and  land  [39 

(evictjon  and  rent  recovery) 

(ii)  any  tax  (by  whatever  name  called)  payable  in 
respect  of  the  premises, 

where  such  charge  or  tax  is  payable  by  the  State  Government  or  the 
local  authority. 

3.  For  the  puposes  of  this  Act,  a person  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 
unauthorised  occupation  of  any  public  premises — 

(a)  where  he  has,  whether  before  or  after  the  commencement 
of  this  Act,  entered  into  possession  thereof  otherwise 
than  under  and  in  pursuance  of  any  allotment,  lease  or 
grant  ; or 

(b)  where  he,  being  an  allottee,  lessee  or  grantee,  has,  by 
reason  of  the  determination  or  cancellation  of  his 
allotment,  lease  or  grant  in  accordance  with  the  terms 
in  that  behalf  therein  contained,  ceased,  whether 
before  or  after  the  commencement  of  this  Act,  to  be 
entitled  to  occupy  01  hold  such  public  premises  ; or 

(c)  where  any  person  authorised  to  occupy  any  public 
premises  has,  whether  before  or  after  the 
commencement  of  this  Act, — 

(i)  sub-let,  in  contravention  of  the  terms  of 
allotment,  lease  or  grant,  without  the  permission 
of  the  State  Government  or  of  any  other  authority 
competent  to  permit  such  sub-letting,  the  whole 
or  any  part  of  such  public  premises,  or 

(ii)  otherwise  acted  in  contravention  of  any  of  the 
terms,  express  or  implied,  under  which  he  is 
authorised  to  occupy  such  public  premises. 

Explanation. — For  the  purposes  of  clause  (a),  a person  shall  nol 
merely  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  be  has  paid  any  rent  be -deemed  to  have 
entered  into  possession  as  allottee,  lessee  or  grantee. 

4.  ( 1 ) If  the  Collector  is  of  opinion  that  any  persons  are  in 
unauthorised  occupation  of  any  public  premise?  situate  within  his 
jurisdiction  and  that  they  should  be  evicted,  the  Collector  shall  issue, 
in  the  manner  hereinafter  provided,  a notice  in  writing  calling  upon  all 
persons  concerned  to  show  cause  why  an  order  of  eviction  should  not 
be  made. 


Un- 
authorised 
occupation 
of  public 
premises. 


Issue  of 
notice  lo 
show  cause 
against 
order  of 
eviction. 


140 


Eviction  of 
unauthori- 
sed persons. 


public  premises  and  land  [1972  : Haryana  Act  24 
(eviction  and  rent  recovery) 

(2)  The  nolice  shall — 

(a)  specify  the  grounds  on  which  (he  order  of  eviction  is 
proposed  to  be  made;  and 

( b)  require  all  persons  concerned,  that  is  to  say,  all  persons 
who  are,  or  may  be,  in  occupation  of,  or  claim  interest 
in,  the  public  premises,  to  show  cause,  if  any,  against 
the  proposed  order  on  or  before  such  date  as  is 
specified  in  the'  notice,  being  a date  not  earlier  than 
ten  days  from  the  date  of  issue  thereof. 

(3)  The  Collector  shall  cause  the  notice  to  be  affixed  on  the 
outer  door  or  some  other  conspicuous  part,  of  the  public  premises,  or 
of  the  estate  in  which  the  public  premises  are  situate,  and  in  such  other 
maner  as  may  be  prescribed,  whereupon  the  notice  shall  be  deemed  to 
have  been  duly  given  to  all  persons  concerned. 

(4)  Where  the  Collector  knows  or  has  reasons  to  believe  that 
any  persons  are  in  occupation  of  the  public  premises,  then  without 
prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  sub-section  (3),  he  shall  cause  a copy  of 
the  notice  to  be  served  on  every  such,  person  by  post  or  by  delivering  or 
tendering  it  to  that  person  or  in  such  other  manner  as  maybe  prescribed. 

5.  (1)  If,  after  considering  the  cause,  if  any,  shown  by  any 
person  in  pursuance  of  a notice,  under  section  4 and  any  evidence  he 
may  produce  in  support  of  the  same  and  after  giving  him  a reasonable 
opportunity  of  being  heard,  the  Collector  is  satisfied  that  the  public 
premises  are  in  unauthorised  occupation,  the  Collector  may  make  an 
order  of  eviction,  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  therein,  directing  that  the 
public  premises  shall  be  vacated,  on  such  date  as  may  be  specified  in 
the  order,  by  all  persons  who  may  be  in  occupation  thereof  or  any  part 
thereof,  and  cause  a copy  of  Lhe  order  to  be  affixed  on  the  outer  door  or 
some  other  conspicuous  part  of  the  public  premises  or  of  the  estate  in 
which  the  public  premises  are  situate. 

(2)  If  any  person  refuses  or  fails  to  comply  with  the  order  of 
eviction  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  its  publication  under  sub- 
section ()),  the  Collector  or  any  other  officer  duly  authorised  by  him 
in  this  behalf  may  evict  that  person  from,  and  take  possession  of,  the 
public  premises  and  may,  for  that  purpose,  use  such  force  as  may  be 
necessary. 


141 


1972  : Haryana  Act  24] 


PUBLIC  PREMISES  AND  LAND 

(eviction  and  rent  recovery) 


6.  (1)  Where  any  persons  have  been  evicted  from  any  public 
premises  under  section  5,  the  Collector  may,  after  giving  fourteen  days 
notice  to  the  persons  from  whom  possesion  of  the  public  premises  has 
been  taken  and  after  publishing  the  notice  in  at  least  one  newspaper 
having  circulation  in  the  locality,  remove  or  cause  to  be  removed  or 
sell  by  public  auction  any  property  remaining  on  such  premises. 

(2)  Where  any  property  is  sold  under  sub-section  (1),  the 
sale  proceeds  thereof  shall,  after  deducting  the  expenses  of  the  sale 
and  the  amount,  if  any,  due  to  the  State  Government  or  the  local  authority 
on  account  of  arrears  of  rent  or  damages  or  costs,  be  paid  to  such 
person  or  persons  as  may  appear  to  the  Collector  to  be  entitled  to  the 
same  : 

Provided  that  where  the  Collector  is  unable  to  decide  as  to  the 
person  or  persons  to  whom  the  balance  of  the  amount  is  payable  or  as 
to  the  apportionment  of  the  same,  he  may  refer  such  dispute  to  the 
civil  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  and  the  decision  of  the  court 
thereon  shall  be  final. 

7.  ( 1)  Where  any  person  is  in  arrears  of  rent  payable  in  respect 
of  any  public  premises,  the  collector  may,  by  order,  require  that  person 
to  pay  the  same  within  such  time  and  in  such  instalments  as  may  be 
specified  in  the  order. 

(2)  Where  any  person  is,  or  has  at  any  time  been,  in 
unauthorised  occupation  of  any  public  premises,  the  Collector  may, 
having  regard  to  such  principles  of  assessment  of  damages  as  may  be 
prescribed,  assess  the  damages  on  account  of  the  use  and  occupation 
of  such  premises  and  may,  by  order,  require  that  person  to  pay  the 
damages  within  such  time  and  in  such  instalments  as  may  be  specified 
in  the  order. 

(3)  No  order  under  sub-section  (I)  or  sub-section  (2)  shall 
be  made  against  any  peson  untill  after  the  issue  of  a notice  in  writing 
to  the  peson  calling  upon  him  to  show  cause  within  such  time  as  may 
be  specified  in  the  notice,  why  such  order  should  not  be  made,  and 
until  his  objections,  if  any,  and  any  evidence  he  may  produce  in  support 
of  the  same,  have  been  considered  by  the  Collector. 

8.  The  Collector  shall,  for  the  purpose  of  holding  any  enquiry 
under  this  Act,  have  the  same  powers  as  are  vested  in  a civil  court 
under  the  Code  of  Civil  procedure,  1908.  when  trying  a suit,  in  respect 
of  the  following  matters,  namely  : — 

(a)  summoning  and  enforcing  the  attendance  of  any 
person  and  examining  him  on  oath  ; 


Disposal  of 
property  left 
on  public 
premises  by 
unauthorised 
occupants. 


Power  to  re* 
cover  rent  or 
damages  in 
respect  of 
public  pre- 
mises as  ar- 
rears of  land 
revenue. 


Power  of 
Collector. 


142 


Appeals. 


Finality  of 
orders. 


V al  VJ  IWWJ 

and  penally. 


public  premises  and  land  [1972  : Haryana  Act  24 
(eviction  and  rent  recovery) 

(b)  requiring  the  discovery  and  production  of 

documents  ; • • 

(c)  any  other  matter  which  may  be  prescribed. 

9.  (1)  An  appeal  shall  lie  from  every  order  of  the  Collector 
made  in  respect  of  any  public  premises  under  section  5 or  section  7 to 
the  Commissioner. 

(2)  An  appeal  under  sub-section  (1)  shall  be  preferred,— 

(a)  in  the  case  of  an  appeal  from  an  order  under  section 
5,  within  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  publication  of 

the  order  under  sub-section  (1)  of  that  section  ; and 

&gt; 

(b)  in  the  case  of  an  appeal  from  an  order  under  section 
7,  within  thirty  days  from  the  date  on  which  the  order 
is  communicated  to  the  appellant : 

.Provided  that  the  Commissioner  may  entertain  the  appeal  after 
the  expiry  Of  the  said  period  of  thirty  days  if  he  is  satisfied  that  the 
appellant  was  prevented  by  sufficient  cause  from  filing  the  appeal  in 
time. 

(3)  Where  an  appeal  is  preferred  from  an  order  of  the 
Collector,  the  Commissioner  may  stay  the  enforcement  of  that  order 
for  such  period  and  on  such  conditions  as  he  deems  fit. 

(4)  Every  appeal  under  this  section  shall  be  disposed  of  by 
the  Commisioner  as  expeditiously  as  possible. 

(5)  The  costs  of  any  appeal  under  this  section  shall  be  in  the 
discretion  of  the  Commissioner. 


10.  Save  as  otherwise  expressly  provided  in  this  Act,  every  order 
made  by  the  Collector  or  Commissioner  under  this  Act  shall  be  final 
and  shall  not  be  called  in  question  in  any  original  suit,  application  or 
execution  proceeding  and  no  injunction  shall  be  granted  by  any  court 
or  other  authority  in  respect  of  any  action  taken  or  to  be  taken  in 
pursuance  of  any  power  conferred  by  or  under  this  Act. 


1 1 / i t rj7 u ^ i 

A I#  11/  1L  tlliv  UtLAUJI  WlUJ  IlflA  liUiti  dilj  ^JUUilV 

premises  under  this  Act  again  occupies  the  premises  without  authority 
for  such  occupation  he  shall  be  punishable  with  imprisonment  for  a 
term  which  may  extend  to  one  year,  or  with  fine  which  may  extend  to 
one  thousand  rupees,  or  with  both. 


f 


1972  : Haryana  Act  24]  public  premises  and  land  143 

(eviction  and  rent  recovery) 

(2)  Any  Executive  Magistrate  convicting  a person  under  sub- 
section (J)  may  make  an  order  for  evicting  that  person  summarily  and 
he  shall  be  liable  to  such  eviction  without  prejudice  to  any  other  action 
that  may  be  taken  against  him  under  this  Act. 

12.  If  the  collector  has  reason  to  believe  that  any  persons  are  in 
unauthorised  occupation  of  any  public  premises,  the  Collector  or  any 
other  officer  authorised  by  him  in  this  behlaf  may  require  those  persons 
or  any  other  person  to  furnish  information  relating  to  the  names  and 
other  particulars  of  the  person  in  occupation  of  the  public  premises 
and  every  person  so  required  shall  be  bound  to  furnish  the  information 
in  his  possession. 

13.  (1)  Where  any  person  against  whom  any  proceeding  for  the 
determination  or  arrears  of  rent  or  for  the  assessment  of  damages  is  to 
be  or  has  been  taken  dies  before  the  proceeding  is  taken  or  during  the 
pendency  thereof,  the  proceeding  may  be  taken  or,  as  the  case  may  be, 
continued  against  the  heirs  or  legal  representatives  of  that  person. 

(2)  Any  amount  due  to  the  State  Government  or  the  local 
authority  from  any  person  whether  by  way  of  arrears  of  rent  or  damages 
or  costs  shall,  after  the  death  of  the  person,  be  payable  by  his  heirs  or 
legal  representatives,  but  their  liability  shall  be  limited  to  the  extent  of 
the  assests  of  the  deceased  in  their  hands.  \vj  ■ 

14.  If  any  person  refuses  of  fails  to  pay  the  arrears  of  rent  payable 
under  sub-section  (1)  of  section  7 or  the  damages  payable  under  sub- 
section (2)  of  that  section  or  the  costs  awarded  to  the  State  Government 
or  the  local  authority  under  sub-section  (5)  of  section  9 or  any  portion 
of  such  rent,  damages  or  costs,  within  the  time,  if  any,  specified  therefor 
in  the  order  relating  thereto,  the  Collector  shall  proceed  to  recover  the 
amount  due  as  arrears  of  land  revenue. 

15.  No  court  shall  have  jurisdicalion  to  entertain  any  suit  or 
proceeding  in  respect  of  the  eviction  of  any  person  who  is  in 
unauthorised  occupation  of  any  public  premises  or  the  recovery  of  the 
arrears  of  rent  payable  under  sub-section  (1)  of  section  7 or  the  damages 
payable  under  sub-section  (2)  of  that  section  or  the  costs  awarded  to 
tire  State  Government,  or  the  ioeai  authority  under  sub-section  (5)  of 
section  9 or  any  portion  of  such  rent,  damages  or  costs. 

16.  No  suit,  prosecution  or  other  legal  proceeding  shall  lie  against 
the  State  Government  or' the  local  authority  or  the  Commissioner  or 
the  Collector  in  respect  of  anything  which  is  in  good  faith  done  or 
intended  to  be  done  in  pursuance  of. this  Act  or  of  any  rules  or  orders 
made  thereunder. 


Power  10 

obtain 

information. 


Liability  of 
heirs  and 
legal 

representa- 

tives. 


Recovery  of 
rent,  etc.  as 
arrears  of 
land  . 
revenue. 


Bar  of 
jurisdiction. 


Protection 
of  action 
taken  in 
good  faith. 


144 


Power  to 
make  rules. 


Repeal, 

Validation. 


public  premises  and  land  [1972  : Haryana  Act-24 
(eviction  a nd  rent  recovery) 

17.  (1)  The  State  Government  may,  by  notification,  make  rules 
for  carrying  out  the  purposes  of  this  Act. 

(2)  In  particular;  and  without' prejudice  to  the  generality  of 
the  foregoing  power,  such  rules  may  provide  for  all  or  any  of  the 
following  matters,  namely  : — 

(a)  the  form  of  any  notice  required  or  authorised  to  be 
given  udner  this  Act  and  the  manner  in  which  it  may 
be  served ; 

(b)  the  holding  of  enquiries  under  this  Act ; 

(c)  the  procedure  to  be  followed  in  taking  possession  of 
public  premises  ; 

(d)  the  manner  in  which,  damages  for  unauthorised 
occupation  may  be  assessed  and  the  principles  which 
may  be  taken  into  account  in  assessing  such 
damages  ; 

(e)  the  manner  in  which  appeals  may  be  preferred  and 
the  procedure  to  be  followed  in  appeals  ; 

(f)  any  other  matter  which  has  to  be  or  may  be  prescribed. 

(3)  Every  rule  made  under  this  section  shall  be  laid,  as  soon 
as  may  be,  after  it  is  made,  before  the  House  of  the  State  Legislature 
while  it  is  in  session  for  a total  period  of  ten  days  which  may  be 
comprised  in  one  session  or  in  two  or  more  successive  sessions,  and  if, 
before  the  expiry  of  the  session  in  which  it  is  so  laid  or  the  successive 
sessions  aforesaid,  the  House  agrees  in  making  any  modification  in 
the  rule  or  the  House  agrees  that  the  rule  should  not  be  made,  the  rules 
shall  thereafter  have  effect  only  in  such  modified  form  or  be  of  no 
effect,  as  the  case  may  be;  so,  however,  that  any  such  modification  or  a 
annulment  shall  be  without  prejudice  to  the  validity  to  anything 
previously  done  under  that  rule. 

18.  The  Punjab  Premises  and  Land  (Eviction  and  Rent  Recovery) 
Act,  1959,  is  hereby  repealed. 

19.  Notwithstanding  any  judgement,  decree  or  order  of  any  court, 
anything  done  nr  any  action  taken  (including  rules  or  orders  made, 
notices  issued,  evictions  ordered  or  effected,  damages  assessed,  rents 
or  damages  or  costs  recovered  and  proceedings  initiated)  or  purported 
to  have  been  done  or  taken  under  the  Punjab  Public  Premises  and  Land 
(Eviction  and  Rent  Recovery)  Act,  1959  (hereinafter  in  this  section 


145 


1972  : Haryana  Act  24)  pubuc  premises  and  land 

(eviction  and  rent  recovery) 

referred  to  as  the  1959  Act),  shall  be  deemed  to  be  as  valid  and  effective 
as  if  such  thing  or  action  was  done  or  taken  under  the  corresponding 
provisions  of  this  Act  which,  under  sub-section  (3)  of  section  1 shall 
be  deemed  to  have  come  into  force  on  the  10th  day  of  August,  1959, 
and  accordingly — 

(a)  no  suit  or  other  legel  proceeding  shall  be  maintained 
or  continued  in  any  court  for  the  refund  of  any  rent  or 
damages  or  costs  recovered  under  the  1959  Act  where 
such  refund  has  been  claimed  merely  on  the  ground 
that  the  said  Act  has  been  declared  to  be 
unconstitutional  and  void;  and 

(b)  no  court  shall  enforce  a decree  or  order  directing  the 
refund  of  any  rent  or  damages  or  costs  recoverd  under 
the  1959  Act  merely  on  the  ground  that  the  said  Act 
has  been  declared  to  be  unconstitutional  and  void. 


