The Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 

Act 16 of 1994 


Keyword(s): 

Annual Value, Budget Grant, Collector's Rate, Corrupt Practice, Casual 
Vacancy, Dangerous Disease, Dry Latrine, District Judge, Divisional 
Commissioner, Drain, Factory, House-Gully, Hut, Licensed Architect, 
Municipal Slaughter House, Municipal Water Works 

Amendment appended: 1 of 2007, 13 of 2007, 21 of 2012, 2 of 2013, 12 of 
2013, 12 of 2014 


DISCLAIMER: This document is being furnished to you for your information by PRS 
Legislative Research (PRS). The contents of this document have been obtained from sources 
PRS believes to be reliable. These contents have not been independently verified, and PRS 
makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy, completeness or correctness. In 
some cases the Principal Act and/or Amendment Act may not be available. Principal Acts 
may or may not include subsequent amendments. For authoritative text, please contact the 
relevant state department concerned or refer to the latest government publication or the 
gazette notification. Any person using this material should take their own professional and 
legal advice before acting on any information contained in this document. PRS or any persons 
connected with it do not accept any liability arising from the use of this document. PRS or any 
persons connected with it shall not be in any way responsible for any loss, damage, or distress 
to any person on account of any action taken or not taken on the basis of this document. 


1994: (HARYANA ACT 16) MUNICIPAL CORPORATION 


THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION ACT, 1994 
(Haryana Act No. 16 of 1994) 

Table of Contents 
CHAPTER-1 
PRELIMINARY 

Sections 

1 . Short title, extent and commencement. 

2. Definitions. 

3. Declaration of Municipal area as Corporation. 

CHAPTER -II 

CONSTITUTION OF CORPORATION 


4. incorporation and Constitution of Corporation. 

5. Duration of Corporation. 

6. Delimitation of Wards. 

7. Qualification for members. 

8. Disqualification of members. 

9. Election to the Corporation. 

10. Constitution and Composition of Wards Committees etc. 

1 1 . Reservation of seats. 

12. Right to Votes. 

13. Filling of Casual Vacancies. 

14. Publication of results of elections. 

15. Election petitions. 

16. Relief that may be claimed by petitioner 

17. Grounds for declaring election to be void. 

18. Procedure to be followed by prescribed authority. 

19. decision of prescribed authority. 

20. Procedure in case of equality of votes. 

21. Finality of decision. 


Sections: 


22. Corrupt practices. 

23. Maintenance of secrecy of voting. 

24. Officers etc. at elections not to act for candidates or to influence voting. 

25. Prohibition of canvassing in or near polling station and of public meeting 
on election day. 

26. Penalty for disorderly conduct in or near Polling Station. 

27. Penalty for misconduct at the Polling Station. 

28. Breaches of official duty in connection with election. 

29. Removal of ballot papers from Polling Station to be an offence. 

30. Offence of both capturing. 

3 1 . Other offence and penalties. 

32. Power to make rules regulating the election of members. 

33. Oath of affirmation by member. 

34. Removal of and resignation by members. 

35. Payment of allowances to members. 

36. Election of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor, Deputy Mayor and their term of 
office. 

37. Removal of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor. 

38. Discharge of functions of the Mayor by Deputy Mayor. 

39. Resignation of Mayor and Deputy Mayors. 

40. Adhoc Committees. 


CHAPTER -III 
Functions of the Corporation 

4 1 . General Powers of Corporation. 

42. Functions of Corporation to be entrusted by the Government. 

43. Obligatory functions of Corporation. 

44. Discretionary functions of the Corporation. 

CHAPTER-IV 

Municipal authorities under the Corporation 

45. Appointment of Commissioner. 

46. Salary and allowances of Commissioner. 

47. Leave etc. of Commissioner. 

Sections 

48. Contribution by Corporation. 

49. Function of the Commissioner. 

50. Power of Corporation to require Commissioner to produce documents and 
furnish returns, reports etc. 


5 1 . Exercise of powers to be subject to sanction. 

CHAPTER-V 

Procedure 

Transaction of Business by the Corporation 

52. Meetings. 

53. First Meeting of Corporation after general elections for election of 
Mayor. 

54. Notice of Meetings and business. 

55. Quorum. 

56. Presiding Officer. 

57. Method of deciding question. 

58. Maintain of Order at and admission of public to meetings, 
withdrawal and suspension of members. 

59. Member not to vote on matter in which he is interested. 

60. Maintain of Order at and admission of public to meetings, 
withdrawal and suspension of members. 

6 1 . Right to attend meetings of Corporation and its Committees etc. 
and right of members to ask question in relation to the 
administration of Municipal area. 

62. Power to make regulations. 

63. Presiding Officer at meetings of adhoc Committees. 

64. Keeping of minutes and inspection of minutes and reports of 
proceedings. 

65. Forwarding minutes and reports of proceedings to the Govermnent. 

66. Validation of proceedings etc. 

CHAPTER -VI 

Corporation officers and other Corporation Employees 

67. Posts in Corporation and appointments thereto. 

68. Officers and other employees not to undertake any extraneous 
work. 

69. Officers and other employees not to be interested in any contract 
etc. with Corporation. 

Sections 

70. Punishment of Corporation Officers and other employees. 

7 1 . Power of Corporation to make regulations. 


CHAPTER -VII 
Revenue and Expenditure 


72. Constitution of Corporation Fund. 

73. Corporation Fund to be kept in treasury or in a nationalized bank. 

74. Operation of account with banks. 

75. Payment not to be made unless covered by a budget grant. 

76. Duty of persons signing Chouse. 

77. Procedure when money not covered by a budget grant is expended. 

78. Application of Corporation Fund. 

79. Payments from Corporation Fund for works urgently required for 
public service. 

80. Investment of surplus money. 

8 1 . Constitution of special funds. 

82. Finance Commission. 

83. Budget estimates. 

84. Power of Corporation to alter Budget estimates. 

85. Power of Corporation to readjust income and expenditure during 
the year. 

86. Provision as to unexpended budget grant. 

CHAPTER -VIII 
Taxes and Fees 

87. Taxes etc. to be imposed by Corporation under this Act and 
arrangement of certain taxes collected by Government. 

88. Fees that may be charged by the Corporation. 

89. Components and rates of taxes of lands and buildings. 

90. Premises in respect of which water tax or charges and fire tax are 
to be levied. 

9 1 . Determination of annual value of lands and buildings assessable to 
taxes. 

92. Taxation of Union properties. 

93. Incidence of taxes on land and buildings. 

Sections 

94. Appointment of liability of taxes on lands and buildings when 
premises assessed are let or sublet. 

95. Recovery of taxes on lands and buildings from occupiers. 

96. Taxes on lands buildings a first charge on premises on which they 
are assessed. 

97. Assessment list. 

98. Evidentiary value of assessment list. 

99. Amendment of assessment list. 

100. Preparation of new assessment list. 

101. Notice of transfers 

102. Notice of erection of buildings etc. 

103. Notice of demolition or removal of building. 


104. Power of Commissioner to call for information. 

105. Premises owned by or let to two or more persons in severalty to be 
ordinarily assessed as one property. 

106. Assessment in case of amalgamation of premises. 

107. Power of Commissioner to assess separately out houses and 
portion of buildings. 

108. Power of Commissioner to employ values. 

109. Levy of Octroi or tax levied in lieu of octroi. 

110. Power to examine articles liable to octroi 

111. Power to search where octroi livable. 

112. Penalty for evasion of octroi. 

113. Recovery of Octroi and toll or taxes. 

1 14. Tax on Vehicles and animals. 

115. Tax on whom livable. 

116. Exemption from taxes on vehicle and animals. 

117. Levy of development tax. 

118. Amount of development tax. 

119. Payment of development tax. 

120. Assessment of development tax. 

121. Fee on advertisements. 

122. Prohibition of advertisement without written pennission of 
Commissioner. 

123. Pennission of Commissioner to become void in certain cases. 

Sections 

124. Presumption in case of contravention. 

125. Power of Commissioner in case of contravention. 

126. Fee on building applications. 

127. Time and manner of payment of taxes or fees. 

128. Presentation of bill of tax or fee. 

129. Consequences of failure to pay tax or fee within thirty days. 

130. Manner of recovering tax or fee. 

131. Power of seizure of vehicles and animals in case of non-payment 
of tax thereon. 

132. Demolition etc. of building. 

133. Remission or refund of tax on lands and buildings. 

134. Power to require entry in assessment list of details of buildings. 

135. Notice to be given of circumstances in which remission or refunds 
is claimed. 

136. What building etc. are to be deemed vacant. 

137. Notice to be given of every occupation of vacant land or building. 

138. Appeal against assessment etc. 

139. Conditions of right to appeal. 

140. Finality of appellate orders. 

141. Taxation not to be questioned except under this Act. 


142. Power to inspect for purposes of determining the ratable value or 
tax or fee. 

143. Composition. 

144. Irrecoverable debts. 

145. Obligation to disclose liability. 

146. Power to amend list in certain cases. 

147. Immaterial error not to effect liability. 

148. Power of exemption. 

149. Power of Government in regard to taxes. 

CHAPTER-IX 

Borrowing 

150. Power of Corporation to borrow. 

151. Time for repayment of money borrowed under section 150. 

152. Form and effects of debentures. 

Sections 

153. Payment to survivors of joint payees. 

1 54. Receipt by joint holders for the interest or dividend. 

155. Maintenance and investment of sinking funds. 

156. Application of sinking funds. 

157. Annual statement by Commissioner. 

158. Priority of payment for interest and repayment of loans over other 
payment. 

159. Attachment of corporation fund for recovery of money borrowed 
from Government. 

160. Power to make regulations. 

161. Property vested in Corporation and management of public 
institutions. 

CHAPTER -X 
Properties and Contracts 

162. Request for acquisition of land by the Corporation. 

163. Acquisition of immovable property by the Government. 

164. Disposal of property. 

165. Contracts by Corporation. 

166. Procedure for making contracts. 

167. Mode of executing contracts. 

CHAPTER -XI 
Accounts and Audits 

168. Maintenance of accounts and security thereof, by examiner, Local 
Fund Accounts, Haryana and by corporation. 

169. Report by examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana. 

170. Action by Commissioner on the Report. 


171 . Procedure to be followed by Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, 
Haryana. 

172. Power of Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana to make 
queries etc. and call for returns etc. 


CHAPTER-XII 

Water Supply, Drainage and Sewage Disposal 


Sections 

173. Definitions. 

174. Power to require Corporation to Carry out surveys and formulate 
proposals. 

175. Power to contract additional works. 

176. Function in relation to water supply. 

177. Supply of water to connected premises. 

178. Power to supply water for non-domestic purposes. 

179. Making connections with municipal water works. 

180. Obligation of owner or occupier to give notice of waste of water. 

181. Cutting of Supply to premises. 

182. New premises not to be occupied without arrangement for water 
supply. 

183. Public gratuitous water supply. 

184. Power to lay mains. 

185. Power to lay service pipes etc. 

186. Provision of fire hydrants. 

187. Power of Corporation to require owners of premises to set up 
pumps etc. 

188. Power to enter premises to detect waste or misuse of water. 

1 89. Power to test water fittings. 

190. Power to close or restrict use of water from polluted source of 
supply. 

191. Water pipes etc. not to be placed where water will be polluted. 

192. Joint and several liability of owners and occupiers for offense in 
relation to water supply. 

193. Public drains etc. to vest in Corporation. 

194. Control of drain and sewage disposal works. 

195. Certain matters not to be passed into municipal drains. 

196. Application by owners and occupiers to drain into municipal drain. 

197. Drainage of untrained premises. 

198. New premises not to be erected without drainage. 

199. Power to drain group or block of premises by combined 
operations. 


200. Power of Commissioner to close or limit the use of private drain in 
certain cases. 

20 1 . Use of drain by a person other than owner. 

202. Sewage and rain water drains to be distinct. 

203. Power of Commissioner to require owner to carry out certain 
works for satisfactory drainage. 

204. Appointment of places for the emptying of drain and disposal of 
sewage. 

205. Connection with water works and drains not ot be made without 
pennission. 

206. Buildings railways and private streets not to be erected or 
constructed over drains or water works without permission. 

207. Right of user of property for aqueducts, lines etc. 

208. Power of owner of premises to place pipes and drains through land 
belonging to other persons. 

209. Railway administration be informed in certain cases. 

210. Power of Commissioner to execute work after giving notice to 
person liable to do so. 

211. Power of Commissioner to affix shafts etc. for ventilation of crain 
or cesspool. 

212. Power of Commissioner to examine and test drain etc. believed to 
be defective. 

213. Employment of Government agencies for repair etc. 

214. Work to be done by license plumber. 

215. Prohibition of certain acts. 

CHAPTER -XIII 
Streets 

216. Vesting of Public streets in Corporation. 

217. Functions of Commissioner in respect of Public Streets. 

218. Disposal of land fonning site of public streets pe3nnanently 

closed. 

219. Power to make new public streets. 

220. Minimum width of new public streets. 

22 1 . Power to prohibit use of public streets for certain kinds of traffic. 

222. Power to acquire land and buildings for public streets and for 
public parking places. 

223. Defining regular lines of streets. 

224. Setting back building to regular line of streets. 

225. Compulsory setting back of building to regular line of streets. 

226. Acquisition of open land and land occupied by platforms etc. 
within a regular line of streets. 


Sections. 


227. Acquisition of remaining part of building and land after their 
portions within regular line of streets have been acquired 

228. Setting forward of buildings to regular line of street. 

229. Payment of compensation. 

230. Owners obligation when dealing with land or building sites. 

23 1 . Layout plans. 

232. Alteration or demolition of street made in breach of section 23 1 . 

233. Power of Commissioner to order work to be carried out or to carry 
it out himself in default. 

234. Declaration of public streets. 

235. Prohibition of projection upon streets etc. 

236. Projections over streets may permitted in certain cases. 

237. Ground floor doors, etc. not to open outwards on streets. 

238. Prohibition of structures, fixtures or deposit of things in streets. 

239. Special provision regarding streets belonging to Government. 

240. Power to remove anything deposited or exposed for sale in 
contravention of this Act. 

24 1 . Prohibition of tethering of animals and milking of cattle. 

242. Precautions during repair of streets etc. 

243. Streets not to be opened or broken up and building materials not to 
be deposited therein without permission. 

244. Deposal of things removed under this chapter. 

245. Naming and numbering of streets. 

246. Commissioner to take steps for repairing or enclosing places. 

247. Measures for lighting. 

248. Prohibition of removal, etc. of lamps. 

CHAPTER -XIV 
Building Regulations 

249. Definitions. 

250. Prohibition of erection of building without sanction. 

25 1 . Erection of building. 

252. Application for addition to, or repairs of building. 

253. Conditions of valid notice . 

Sections, 

254. Sanction or refusal or building or works. 

255. When building or work may be proceeded with. 

256. Sanction accorded under misrepresentation. 

257. Building at corners of streets. 

258. Provisions as to buildings and works on new side. 

259. Period for completion of building or work. 


260. Prohibition against use of in flammable materials for buildings etc. 
without permission. 

261. Order of demolition and stoppage of building and works in certain 
cases and appeal. 

262. Order of stoppage of building or work in certain cases. 

263. Power of Commissioner to require alteration of work. 

264. Completion certificate. 

265. Restrictions on use of buildings and removal of dangerous 
buildings. 

266. Power to order building to be vacated in certain circumstances. 

267. Building Scheme. 

CHAPTER-XV 
Sanitation and Public Health 

268. Provision for daily cleaning of streets and removal of rubbish and 

faith. 

269. Rubbish etc. to be property of Corporation. 

270. Provision for placement of receptacles, depots and places for 
rubbish etc. 

27 1 . Duty of owners and occupier to collect and deposit rubbish etc. 

272. Removal of rubbish etc. accumulated on premises used as 
factories, workshop, etc. 

273. Prohibition against accumulation of rubbish etc. 

274. Commissioner’s Power to get premises scavenged and cleaned. 

275. Public latrines urinals etc. 

276. Constructions of latrines and urinals. 

277. Latrines and urinals etc. in new buildings. 

278. Latrines and urinals for laborers etc. 

279. Provisions of latrines and urinals for markets etc. 

280. Other provisions as to private latrines. 

281. Removal of congested buildings. 

282. Power of Commissioner require improvement of buildings unfit for 
human habitation. 

Sections. 

283. Enforcement of notice requiring execution of works of 
improvement. 

284. Power of Commissioner to order demolition of buildings unfit for 
human habitation. 

285. Unsanitary huts and sheds. 

286. Prohibition against washing by washer man. 

287. Obligation to give information of dangerous disease. 

288. Removal of patient to hospital suffering from dangerous disease. 


289. Disinfections of buildings and articles. 

290. Destruction of infection huts or sheds. 

291. Means of disinfections. 

292. Special measures in case of outbreak of dangerous or epidemic 
diseases. 

293. Infected clothes not to be sent to washer man or to laundry. 

294. Contamination and disinfections of public conveyance. 

295. Driver of conveyance not bound to carry persons suffering from 
dangerous disease. 

296. Disinfections of buildings before letting the same. 

297. Disposal infected articles without disinfections. 

298. Prohibition of making or selling of food, etc. or washing of clothes 
by infected persons. 

299. Power to restrict or prohibit sale of food or drink. 

300. Control over wells and tanks etc. 

301. Duty of persons suffering from dangerous diseases. 

302. Disposal of infectious corpse where any person has died from any 
dangerous disease. 

303. Conditions of service of Safari karamcharis and certain other 
classes of persons employed in Corporation service. 

304. Power to call for infonnation regarding burning and burial ground. 

305. Pennission for use of new burning or burial ground. 

306. Power to require closing of burning and burial ground. 

307. Removal of corpses. 

308. Disposal of dead animals. 

CHAPTER XVI 

Public Safety and Suppression of Nuisances 

309. Prohibition of Nuisances. 

310. Power of Commissioner to require removal or abatement of 
nuisance. 

311. Registration and control of dogs. 

Sections. 

312. Stacking or collecting inflammable materials. 

313. Care of naked lights. 

314. Discharging fire works, firearms etc. 

315. Power to require buildings, wells etc. to be rendered safe. 

316. Enclosure of waste land used for improper purposes. 


CHAPTER XVII 


Extinction and Prevention of Fire 


317. 

318. 
suppression 

319. 


Establishment and maintenance of fire-brigade. 

Power of members of fire-brigades and other persons or 
of fire. 

Limitation on operation of this Chapter. 


CHAPTER XVIII 

Markets, Slaughter Houses, Trades and Out Patients 

320. Provision of municipal markets and slaughter houses. 

32 1 . Use of Municipal markets. 

322. Private markets and slaughter houses. 

323. Conditions of grant of license for private market. 

324. Prohibition of use of unlicensed markets. 

325 . Prohibition of business and trade. 

326. Prohibition of business and trade. 

327. Levy of stall ages rents and fees. 

328. Stall age rents etc. to be published. 

329. Butcher’s, fishmonger’s and pouter’s license. 

330. Lactory, etc. not to be established without permission of 
Commissioner. 

33 1 . Premises not to be used for certain purposes without license. 

332. Seizure of certain animals. 

333. Power of the Commissioner to prevent use of premises in 
particular for purposes referred to in section 331. 

334. Licenses for hawking articles etc. 

335. Eating houses etc. not to be used without license from 
Commissioner. 

336. Licensing and control of thereafter, circuses and places of public 
amusement. 

337. Power of Commissioner of premises used in contravention of 
licenses. 

338. Power of Commissioner to inspect places where unlawful slaughter 
of animals etc. is suspected. 


CHAPTER XIX 


Improvement 


339. Improvement Scheme. 

340. Matters to be provided for in an improvement scheme. 

341. Submission of improvement scheme to the Corporation for 
approval and to the Government for sanction. 

342. Publication of the notice after scheme is sanctioned. 

343. Rehousing Scheme. 

344. Improvement scheme and Rehousing scheme to comply with 
master plan and zonal development plan. 

345. Provision of housing accommodation for the economically weaker 
sections. 


CHAPTER XX 

Declaration and Publication of Plans of Controlled Area 


346. Declaration of controlled area. 

347. Erection or re-erection of building etc. in controlled area. 

348. Prohibition on use of land in controlled area. 

349. Application of pennission or license and the grant of refusal 

thereof. 

350. Appeal. 

351. Commissioner to carry out functions of the Director. 

CHAPTER XXI 

Power, Procedure, Offences and Penalties 


352. Signature, Conditions, duration, suspension, revocation, etc. of 
licenses and written pennissions. 

353. Power of entry and inspection. 

354. Power to enter land, adjoining land in relation to any work. 

355. Breaking into building. 

356. Time of making entry. 

357. Consent ordinarily to be obtained. 

358. Regard to be had to social or religious usages. 

359. Prohibition of obstruction or molestation in execution of work. 

Sections. 

360. Public notice how to be made known. 

361. Newspaper in which advertisement of notices to be published. 


362. Proof of content etc. of Commissioner etc. 

363. Notices etc. to fix, reasonable time. 

364. Signature on notices etc. may be stamped. 

365. Notice etc. by whom to be served or issued. 

366. Service of notices etc. 

367. Service of bills for tax or notice of demand by ordinary post. 

368. Power in case of non-compliance with notice etc. 

369. Liability of occupier to pay in default of owner and deduction of 
expenses from rent. 

370. Execution of work by occupier in default of owner and deduction 
of expenses from rent. 

371. Relief to agents and trustees. 

372. General power to pay compensation. 

373. Compensation to be paid by offenders for damage caused by them. 

374. Mode of recovery of certain dues. 

375. Right of owner to apply to court of the District Judge in case of 
obstruction by occupier. 

376. General power and procedure of the court of District Judge. 

377. Fees in proceeding before court of the District Judge. 

378. Repayment of half fees on settlement before hearing. 

379. Power of the court of District Judge to delegate certain powers and 
to make rules. 

380. Punishment for certain offences. 

381. General. 

382. Offences by Companies. 

383. Police establishment. 

384. Arrest of offenders. 

385. Power to institute etc. legal proceedings and obtain legal advice. 

386. Prosecution. 

387. Composition of offences. 

388. Protection of action of the Corporation etc. 

389. Notice to be given of suits. 


CHAPTER XXII 
Rules, Regulations and bye-laws 

Sections, 

390. Supplemental provision respecting rules. 

391. Supplemental provisions respecting regulations . 

392. Power to make bye-laws. 

393. Penalty for breaches of bye-laws. 


394. Supplemental provisions respecting bye-laws. 

395. Bye-laws to be available for inspection and purchase. 


CHAPTER XXIII 
Control 


396. Power of Government to require production of documents. 

397. Inspection. 

398. Direction by Government. 

399. Power to provide for enforcement of direction under section 398. 

400. Dissolution of Corporation. 


CHAPTER XXIV 
Miscellaneous 


401. 

402. 

403. 

404. 

405. 

authority etc. 

406. 

407. 

408. 

409. 

410. 

servants. 

411. 

412. 

413. 


Sections. 


Delegation. 

Validity of notices and other documents. 

Admissibility of document or entry as evidence. 

Evidence of Corporation Officer or employee. 

Prohibition against obstruction of Mayor or any Corporation 

Prohibition against removal of mark. 

Prohibition against removal or obliteration. 

Prohibition against unauthorized removal deposit etc. 

Liability of members. 

Members and Corporation Officer and employees to be public 

Annual administration report. 

Construction of reference. 

Special provisions as to rural area. 


414. Power of Government to suspend any resolution or order of 
Corporation. 

415. Power of Government to modify proceedings. 

416. Power of Government to withdraw any area of Municipal area 
from operation of Act. 

417. Committee for Metropolitan planning. 


CHAPTER XXVI 


General provisions with regard to Corporation other than the Corporation of 

Faridabad 


422. Provisions regarding officer and employees. 

423. Assets, Liabilities, obligations contracts and pending proceedings. 

424. Repeal. 

First Schedule 
Second Schedule 
Third Schedule 


1994: (HARYANA ACT 16) MUNICIPAL CORPORATION 
‘THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION ACT, 1994 
(Haryana Act No. 16 of 1994) 


(Received the assent of the President of India on the 20th October, 1994 and was first 
published in the Haryana Government Gazette (Extraordinary), Legislative Supplement 
Part 1 of the 22nd October, 1994.) 


1 

2 

3 

4 

Year 

No. 

Short title 

Whether repealed or otherwise affected 
by Legislation 

1994 

16 

The Haryana Municipal 
Corporation Act, 1994 

Amended by Haryana Act 4 of 19952 
Amended by Haryana Act 3 of 19963 
Amended by Haryana Act 19 of 19964 
Amended by Haryana Act 1 1 of 19975 
Amended by Haryana Act 18 of 1999 
Amended by Haryana Act 2 of 2000 
Amended by Haryana Act 9 of 2000 
Amended by Haryana Act 15 of 2000 
Amended by Haryana Act 9 of 2001 
Amended by Haryana Act 12 of 2002 
Amended by Haryana Act 22 of 2002 
Amended by Haryana Act 15 of 2003 
Amended by Haryana Act 24 of 2003 
Amended by Haryana Act 20 of 2004 
Amended by Haryana Act 27 of 2004 
Amended by Haryana Act 9 of 2005 
Amended by Haryana Act 1 of 2006 

1 For Statement of Objects and Reasons see Flaryana Government Gazette (extra.) dated 1 1th September, 
1994, Page 

2 For Statement of Objects and Reasons see Flaryana Government Gazette (extra.) dated 1-3-1995 Pages 


315 

3 For Statement of Objects and Reasons see Flaryana Government Gazette (extra.) dated 24-2-1996 

4 For Statement of Objects and Reasons see Flaryana Government Gazette (extra.) dated 15-11-96 

5 For Statement of Objects and Reasons see Flaryana Government Gazette (extra.) dated 4-3-1997 


AN 

ACT 


To provide for the establishment of Municipal Corporatations 
for certain municipal areas in the State of Haryana 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana 
in the Forty-fifth year of the Republic of India as follows:- 

CHAPTER 1 
Preliminary 

Short title, extent and 1. (1) This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal 

commencement. Corporation Act, 1994. 

(2) It extends to the whole of the State of Haryana excluding 
the cantonment areas therein. 

(3) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect 
from 31st May, 1994. 

Definitions. 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, - 

'[(a) “annual value” notwithstanding anything contained in any 
other law for the time being in force, means, - 
(a) in the case of land, the gross annual rent - 

(i) to be calculated on the basis of fair rent fixed 
under the law relating to rent restriction for the 
time being in force’ or 

(ii) where no fair rent referred to in item (i) is fixed, 
at which it is expected to be let or it is actually let, 
whichever is greater: 

Provided that, in the case of land assessed 
to land-revenue or any other tax in lieu thereof or 
of which the land-revenue has been wholly or in 
part released, compounded for, redeemed or 
assigned, the annual value shall, if the State 
Government so directs, be deemed to be double 
the aggregate of the following amounts, namely: - 

(i) the amount of the land-revenue or any other tax in 
lieu thereof for the time being assessed on the 
land, whether such assessment is leviable or not; 
or when the land-revenue has been wholly or in 
part compounded for or redeemed, the amount 
which, but for such composition or redemption, 
would have been leviable; and 

(ii) when the improvement of the land due to canal 
irrigation has been excluded from account in 
assessing the land-revenue, the amount of 
owner’s rate or water advantage rate, or other rate 


1 inserted by Haryana Act 24 of 2003. 


imposed in respect of such improvement; 

(b) in the case of any land on which no building has been 
erected, but on which a building can be erected, and on 
any land on which a building is in the process of 
erection, five percent of the estimated market value of 
the land; 

(c) in the case of any house or building whether self 
occupied or tenanted, five per centum on the sum 
obtained by adding the estimated percent cost of 
erecting the building, less such amount as the 
Government may deem reasonable to be deducted on 
account of depreciation, if any, to the estimated market 
value of the site and any land attached to the house or 
building; 

Provided that- 

(i) in the calculation of the annual value of any 
premises, no account shall be taken of any 
machinery thereon; 

(ii) the basis of assessing the present market value of 
the land, the cost of erecting the building and 
depreciation shall be such as may be decided by 
the Government. Different rates may be 
determined for different categories of building 
and land; 

(iii) if the actual annual rent received by the owner is 
higher than the annual value as determined, then 
the actual annual rent shall be deemed to be the 
annual value for the purpose of this Act; 

(iv) the annual value of the building so determined 
shall be subject to a deduction of ten percent for 
the cost of repairs and other expenses necessary 
for the proper maintenance of the building; 

(v) when a building is occupied by the owner under 
such exceptional circumstances as to render a 
valuation at five per centum on the cost of 
erecting the building, less depreciation, excessive, 
a lower percentage may be taken.” 

(1A) “budget grant” means the total sum entered on the 
expenditure side of a budget estimate under a major head and 
adopted by the Corporation and includes any sum by which 
such budget-grant may be increased or reduced by transfer from 
or to other heads in accordance with the provisions of this Act 
and the regulations made thereunder: - 

(2) “building” means a shop, house, out-house, stable, 
latrine, urinal, shed, hut, well or any other structure whether of 


masonry, bricks, wood, mud, metal or other material and 
includes a well but does not include any portable shelter; 

(3) “bue-law” means a bye-law made under this Act, by 
notification in the Official Gazette; 

'[(3A) “Collector’s rate” means the value of land assessed by 
the Deputy Commissioner every year by exercising his 
authority as District Collector for the purpose of assessing the 
value of stamp duty at the time of registration of sale deeds of 
land. 

(4) “Commissioner” means the commissioner of the 
Corporation appointed by the State Government; 

“[(4A) “competent authority” means the Joint Commissioner 
of Corporation. 

(5) “Corporation” means the Municipal Corporation declared 
and constituted under sections 3 and 4 of this Act; 

(6) “Corrupt practice” means any of the practices specified in 
section 22; 

(7) “Casual Vacancy” means a vacancy occurring otherwise 
than by afflux of time in the office of a member or in any other 
elective office; 

(8) “dangerous disease” rneans- 

(a) cholera, plague, chicken-pox, small-pox, 
tuberculosis, leprosy, enteric fever, cerebrospinal, 
meningitis and diphtheria; and 

(b) any other epidemic, endemic or 
infectious disease which the Commissioner may, by 
notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be 
dangerous disease for the purposes of this Act; 

(9) “dry latrine” means a latrine or privey from where night 
soil is removed through manual scavenging; 

(10) “District Judge” means the District Judge having 
jurisdiction in the Municipal area; 

(11) “Divisional Commissioner” means the Commissioner of 
the Division in which the Corporation is situated any includes 
any other officer appointed by the Government to perform all or 
any of the functions of the Divisional Commissioner under this 
Act; 

(12) “drain” includes a sewer, a house drain, a drain of any 
other desciption, a tunnel, a culvert, a ditch, a channel and any 
other device for carrying of sewage, offensive matter, polluted 
water, waste water, rain water or subsoil water; 

(13) ‘district’ means a district in the State; 

(14) “entertainment” includes any exhibition, performance, 


1 inserted by Haryana Act 24 of 2003. 

2 inserted by Haryana Act 1 of 2007. 


amusement, game or sport to which persons are ordinarily 
admitted on payment; 

(15) “factory” means a factory as defined in the Factories 
Act, 1948; 

(16) “fifth” includes offensive matter and sewage; 

(17) “Finance Commission” means the Finance Commission 
constituted by the State Government under articles 243-1 and 
243-Y of the Constitution of India; 

(18) ‘goods’ includes animals; 

(19) “Government” means the Government of the State of 
Haryana; 

(20) “house-gully” or “service passage” means a passage or 
strip of land constructed, set a part or utilized for the purpose of 
serving as or carrying a drain or affording access to a latrine, 
urinal, cesspool or other receptacle for filth or other polluted 
matter, by Corporation employees or other persons employed in 
the cleaning thereof or in the removal of such matter therefrom; 

(21) “hut” means any building which is constructed 
principally of wood bamboo, mud, leaves, grass, cloth or thatch 
and includes nay structure of whatever material made which the 
Corporation may declare to be a hut for the purposes of this 
Act; 

(22) “land” includes benefits that arise out of land, things 
attached to the earth or pennanently fastened to anything 
attached to the earth and rights created by law over any street; 

(23) “licensed architect”, “licensed draftsmen”, “licensed 
engineer”, “licensed plumber”, “licensed surveyor” and 
“licensed town planner” means respectively a person licensed 
under the provisions of this Act as an architect, draftsman, 
engineer, plumber, surveyor and town planner; 

(24) “member” means a member of the Corporation; 

(25) “municipal drain” means a drain vested in the 
Corporation; 

(26) “municipal market” means a market vested in or 
managed by the Corporation; 

(27) “municipal slaughter house” means a slaughter house 
vested in or managed by the Corporation; 

(28) “municipal water works” means water works vested in 
the Corporation; 

(29) “Metropolitan area” means an area having a population 
of ten lakhs or more, comprised in one or more districts and 
consisting of two or more municipalities or panchayats or other 
contiguous areas, specified by the Government by notification 
in the Official Gazette to be the metropolitan area for the 
purposes of this Act; 

(30) “Municipal area” means the territorial area of the 


Corporation declared under section 3 of this Act; 

(31) “municipality” means an institution of self-government 
constituted under section 2- A of the Haryana Municipal Act, 
1973, which may be a Municipal Committee or a Municipal 
Council or a Municipal Corporation; 

(32) “nuisance” includes any act, omission, place, animal or 
thing which causes or is likely to cause injury, danger, 
annoyance or offence to the sense of sight, smell or hearing or 
disturbance to rest or sleep, or which is or may be dangerous to 
life or injuries to health or property; 

(33) “occupier” includes- 

(a) any person who for the time being is paying or is 
liable to pay to the owner the rent or any portion of 
the rent of the land or building in respect of which 
such rent is paid or is payable; 

(b) an owner in occupation of, or otherwise using his 
land or building; 

(c) a rent-free tenant of any land or building; 

(d) a licensee in occupation of any land or building; 
and 

(e) any person who is liable to pay to the owner 
damage for the use and any occupation of any land 
or building; 

(34) [ 

*] 

(35) “offensive matter” includes animal carcasses, kitchen or 
stable refuse dung, dirt and putrid or putrefying substances, 
other than sewage; 

2[(36) “owner”, - 

(a) when used with reference to any building and land, 

includes - 

(i) the person who receives the rent thereof or who 
would be entitled to receive the rent thereof if 
the same were let; 

(ii) an agent or trustee who receives such rent on 
account of the owner; 

(iii) an agent or trustee who receives the rent of or is 
entrusted with or concerned for, any premises 
devoted to religious or charitable purposes; 

(iv) a receiver, or manager, appointed by any court 
of competent jurisdiction to have the charge of, 
or to exercise the rights of an owner of the said 
premises; 

(v) a mortgage in possession; and 


1 Omitted by Haryana Act 2 of 2000. 

2 Substituted by Haryana Act 24 of 2003. 


(b) when used with reference to any animal, vehicle or 
boat, includes the person for the time being in charge 
of the animal, vehicle or the boat.’ 

(37) “premises” means any land or building or part of a 
building and includes - 

(a) the garden, ground and out-houses, if any, 
appertaining to a building or part of a building; and 

(b) any fitting affixed to a building or part of building for 
the more beneficial enjoyment thereof; 

(38) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under the 
Act; 

(39) “private street” means any street, which is not a public 
street and includes any passage securing access to two or more 
places belonging to the same or different owners; 

(40) “private market” means a market which is not a 
municipal market; 

(41) “private slaughter house” means a slaughter house 
which is not a municipal slaughter house; 

(42) “public place” means any place which is open to the use 
and enjoyment of the public, whether it is actually used or 
enjoyed by the public or not; 

(43) “public securities” means any securities of the Central 
Government or a State Government or any securities 
guaranteed by the Central Govermnent or a State Government 
or any securities issued under this Act; 

(44) “public street” means any street which vests in the 
Corporation or which under the provisions of this Act becomes, 
or is declared to be a public street; 

(45) “population” means the population as ascertained at the 
last preceding census of which the relevant figures have been 
published; 

(46) “railway administration” would have the same meaning 
as assigned to it in the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (Act 9 of 
1890); 

(48) “regulation” means a regulation made by the 
Corporation under this Act, by notification in the Official 
Gazette; 

(49) “reside”- 

(a) a person shall be deemed to “reside” in any dwelling 
house which or some portion of which he sometimes, 
although not uninterruptedly, uses as sleeping 
apartment; and 

a person shall not be deemed to cease to “reside” in 


1 Omitted by Haryana Act 24 of 2003. 

2 Inserted b Haryana Act 18 of 1999. 


any such dwelling house merely because he is absent 
from it or has elsewhere another dwelling house in 
which he resides, if there is, liberty of returning to it at 
any time, and no abandonment of the intention of 
returning to it; 

(50) “rubbish” includes ashes, broken bricks, broken glass, 
dust, malba, mortar and refuse of any kind which is not filth; 

(51) “rural areas” means the part of the Municipal area which 
immediately before their inclusion within the limits of the 
Municipal area were situated within the local limits of Gram 
Panchayat but shall not include such portion thereof as may, 
by virtue of a notification under section 413 ceases to be 
included in the rural areas as herein defined; 

(52) “sewage” means night-soil and other contents of 
latrines, urinals, cesspools or drains and polluted water from 
sinks, bathrooms, stables, cattle sheds and other like places, 
and includes trade effluents and discharges from 
manufacturing of all kinds; 

2[(52A) “Shamlat Deh” includes - 

(1) lands described in the revenue records as Shamlat 
Deh or Shamlat Tikkas; 

lands described in the revenue records as Shamlat 
Tarafs, Pattis, Pannas or Tholas and used according 
to revenue records for common purposes or for the 
benefit of the community or a part thereof; 
lands described as Banjar Qadim and used for 
common purposes according to revenue records; 
lands used or reserved for the benefit of the 
community including streets, lands, playgrounds, 
schools, drinking wells or ponds; and 
lands belonging to the Gram Panchayat of a village 
the Abadi Deh of which has been included in a 
municipality and where the Panchayat consists of 
more than one village, the lands belonging to the 
Panchayat in respect of that village or villages, the 
Abadi Deh of which has been included in a 
municipality. 

but does not include land which - 

(i) has been allotted on quasi permanent basis to a 
displaced person; 

has been acquired under the Disposal Persons 
(Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(Central Act 44 of 1954) or has been treated as 
evacuee properly under the Administration of the 
Evacuee Properly Act, 1950 (Central Act 31 of 


(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 


(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii) 

(ix) 


1950) or is of composite nature in which evacuee 
and non-evacuee shares have not yet been separated; 
has been partitioned and brought under cultivation 
by individual land-holders before the 26th January, 
1970; 

having been acquired before the 26th January, 1970, 
by a person by purchase or in exchange for 
proprietary land from a co-sharer in the Shamlat 
Deh, is so recorded in the Janambandi or is 
supported by a valid deed; 

is described in the revenue records as Shamlat 
Tarafs, Pattis, Pannas or Tholas and is not used 
according to revenue records for common purposes 
or for the benefits of the community of a part 
thereof; 

lies outside the Abadi Deh and is used as Gitwar, 
Bara, Manure-pit or house or for cottage industry; 
was Shamlat Deh, was assessed to land revenue and 
has been in the individual cultivating possession of 
co-shares not being in excess of their respective 
shares in it on or before the 26th January, 1970; 
is used as a place of worship or for purposes sub- 
survient thereto; and 

belongs to the Gram Panchayat of a village the 
Abadi Deh of which has not been included in a 
municipality and where the Panchayat consists of 
more than one village, the lands belonging to the 
Panchayat in respect of that village or villages, the 
Abadi Deh of which has not been included in a 


municipality.” 

(53) “shed” means a slight or temporary structure for shade 
or shelter; 

(54) “slaughter house” means any place ordinarily used for 
the slaughter of animals for the purpose of selling the flesh 
thereof for human consumption; 

(55) “street” means any road, footway, square, Court, alley, 
gully or passage, accessible, whether pennanently or 
temporarily to the public and whether a thoroughfare or not, 
and shall include every vacant space, notwithstanding that it 
may be private property and partly or wholly obstructed by any 
gate, post, chain or other barrier, if houses, shops or other 
buildings about thereon, and if it is used by any persons as 
means of access to or from any public place or thoroughfare, 
whether such person be occupiers of such buildings or not, but 
shall include any part of such space which the occupier of any 
such building has right at all hours to prevent all other persons 


Declaration of 
Municipal area as 
Corporation. 


from using as aforesaid and shall include also the drains or 
gutters therein, or on either side and the land, whether covered 
or not by any payment, verandah or other erection, up to the 
boundary of any abutting property not accessible to the public; 

(56) “State Election Commission” means the State Election 
Commission constituted by the State Government under articles 
243k and 243ZA of the Constitution of India; 

(57) “trade effluent” means any liquid either with or without 
particles of matter in suspension therein, which is wholly or in 
part produced in the course of any trade, or industry carried on 
at trade premises and in relation to any trade premises means 
any such liquid as aforesaid which is so produced in the course 
of any trade or industry carried on at those premises, but does 
not include domestic sewage; 

(58) “trade premises” means any premises used or intended 
to be used for carrying on any trade or industry; 

(59) “trade refuse” means the refuse of any trade or industry; 

(60) “vehicle” includes a carriage, cart, van, dray, truck, 
hand-cart, bicycle, tricycle, cycle-rickshaw, auto-rickshaw, 
motor vehicle and every wheeled conveyance which is used or 
is capable of being used in a street; 

(61) “ward” means a municipal ward of the Corporation 
made under sub-section (2) of section 4 for the purpose of 
election of a member; 

(62) “water course” includes any river, stream or channel 
whether natural or artificial; 

(63) “water works” includes all lakes, tanks, streams, 
cisterns, springs, pumps, wells, reservoirs, aqueducts, water 
trucks, sluices, main piper, culverts, hydrants, stand-pipes and 
conduits and all lands, buildings, machinery, bridges and things 
used for, or intended for the purpose of supplying water; 

(64) “workshop” means any premises (including the 
precincts thereof) other than a factory, wherein any industrial 
process is carried on; 

(65) “water-seal latrine” means a latrine with a minimum 
water-seal of 20mm in which excreta is pushed in or flushed by 
water and is not required to be removed by human agency; 

(66) “wards-committee” means a ward committee constituted 
under section 10 of this Act; and 

(67) “year” means a year commencing on the 1st day of 
April. 

3. (1) From the 31st day of May, 1994, the Municipal 
Corporation of Faridabad shall be deemed to have been 
declared as such for the Municipal Area specified in the First 
Schedule appended to this Act. 

(2) The Government may, from time to time, by notification 


Incorporation and 
constitution of 
Corporation. 


in the Official Gazette, declare any municipality including area 
comprising rural area or a part thereof, if any, to be a 

Corporation known as “the Municipal Corporation of 

(Name of Corporation).” 

Provided that no municipality including area, comprising 
rural area or a part thereof, if any, shall be so declared to be a 
Corporation unless the population thereof [is three lacs or 
more]. 

(3) The Government may, from time to time, after 
consultation with the Corporation, by notification in the 
Official Gazette, alter the limits of the Municipal are of the 
Corporation declared under sub-section (1) and (2) so as to 
include therein or exclude therefrom such areas as may be 
specified in the notification. 

(4) When the limits of the Municipal area are altered, so as to 
include therein any area, except as the Government may 
otherwise by notification, direct, all rules, regulations, 
notifications, bye-laws, orders, directions and powers issued or 
conferred and all taxes imposed under this Act; and in force in 
the Municipal area shall apply to such area. 

(5) When a local area is excluded from the Corporation 
under sub-section (3) - 

(a) this Act, and all notifications, rules, bye-laws, orders, 
directions and powers issued, made or conferred under 
this Act, shall cease to apply thereto; and 

(b) the Government shall after consulting the Corporation, 
frame a scheme determining what portion of the 
balance of the Corporation fund and other property 
vesting in the municipal Corporation shall vest in the 
Government and in what manner the liabilities of the 
Corporation shall be apportioned between the 
Corporation and the Government, and, on the scheme, 
being notified, the property and liabilities shall vest 
and be apportioned accordingly. 

CHAPTER II 

Constitution of Corporation 

4. (1) The Corporation shall be a body corporate having 
perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to 
the provisions of this Act, to sequire, hold and dispose of 
property and may by the said name sue and be used. 

(2) Save as provided in sub-section (3), all seats in the 
Corporation shall be filled by persons chosen by direct election 
from the territorial constituencies in the Municipal area and for 
this purpose the Municipal area shall by a notification issued in 
this behalf be divided into territorial constituencies to be known 
as wards. 


Duration of 
Corporation. 


1 Omitted by Haryana Ai 

2 Added by Haryana Act 

3 Added by Haryana Act 


(3) In addition to the persons chosen by direct election from 
the territorial constituencies, the Government may, by 
notification, nominate the following categories of persons as 
members of the Municipal Corporation: - 

'[“(i) not more than three persons having special 
knowledge or experience in municipal 
administration.” 

(ii) members of the House of the People and the members 
of the Legislative Assembly representing 
constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the 
Municipal Area; 

(iii) members of the Council of States registered as 
electors within the Municipal Area; 

2 [Provided that the persons referred to in clause(i) above 
shall not have the right to vote in the meetings of the 
Corporation.”] 

“Provided further that” 

“[The persons referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) above 
shall neither have right to contest for the election of Mayor, 
Senior Deputy Mayor or Deputy Mayor nor right to vote in the 
meetings for the election of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and 
Deputy Mayor and in the meetings for consideration of 
resolution for removal of Mayer, Senior Deputy Mayor and 
Deputy Mayor of the Corporation, as the case may be]. 

(4) As soon as may be after the commencement of this Act 
a Corporation comprising of the members as provided under 
sub-stations (2) and (3) of this section shall be constituted; 

Provided that the first election to the Corporation may be 
held within a period of six months after the commencement of 
this Act. 

(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4), 
after the commencement of this Act, all powers and duties 
conferred and imposed upon the Corporation by or under this 
Act, or any other law, shall be exercised and performed by the 
Commissioner till a Corporation is constituted under the 
aforesaid sub-section. 

5. (1) The Corporation, unless sooner dissolved under the 
provisions of section 400 of this Act, shall continue for five 
years from the date appointed for its first meeting: 

Provided that the Corporation shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard before its dissolution. 

(2) An election to constitute the Corporation shall be 
completed: - 


;t 19 of 1996 and further added by Haryana Act, 9 of 2005. 

9 of 2005. 

4 of 1995 and further substituted by Haryana Act, 19 of 1996. 


Delimitation of 
wards. 


1 Added by Haryana Act 

2 Substituted by Haryana 


(a) before the expiry of its duration specified in 
sub-section (1); 

(b) before the expiration of a period of six months 
from the date of its dissolution; 

Provided that where the remainder of the period for 
which the dissolved Corporation would have continued is less 
than six months, it shall not be necessary to hold any election 
under this section for constituting the Corporation for such 
period. 

(3) A Corporation constituted upon its dissolution before 
the expiration of its duration shall continue only for the 
remainder of the period for which the dissolved Corporation 
would have continued under sub-section (1) had it not been so 
dissolved. 

'[(4) If a Corporation is not reconstituted before the 
expiration of its duration laid down in sub-section (1), it shall 
be deemed to have been dissolved on the expiry of the said 
duration and, thereupon, provisions of sub-section (2) of section 
400 shall be applicable.” 

2 [6. Fixation of seats of Corporation. - (1) After every 
official census, the total number of seats shall be fixed by the 
Government on the basis of latest census figures. In case certain 
area is included, or excluded from the limits of a Corporation, 
the population shall be ascertained on the spot in respect of 
such area and shall be added to, or excluded from the latest 
census figures of that Corporation for the purpose of refixation 
of seats. 

3 

(2) For the purpose of election of members, the Municipal 
area shall be divided into wards in such manner, as may be 
prescribed.” 

(3) Wards shall, as far as practicable, be geographically 
compact areas, and having regard to physical features, existing 
boundaries of administrative units, if any, facilities of 
communication and public convenience. 

(4) The population of each ward, as far as practicable, should 
be the same throughout the Corporation with a variation upto 
10 percent above or below the average population per ward. 

(5) Wards reserved for the members of Scheduled Castes and 
Backward Classes shall, as far as practicable, be located in 
those areas where the proportion of their population to the total 
population of the Corporation is the largest. 

Explanation. - Here “population” means the population as 
ascertained locally by the staff, deputed by the Commissioner, 


of 2000. 

tct 24 of 2003 and further substituted by Haryana Act 27 of 2004. 


Bar to interference by 
Courts. 


Qualifications for 
members. 


Disqualifications of 
members. 


after going from door to door in the Corporation.” 

1 |6A. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the 
validity of any law relating to the delimitation of constituencies 
and the allotment of seats to such constituencies, made or 
purporting to be made under this Act or the rules framed 
thereunder shall not be called in question in any court.] 

7. A person shall not be qualified to be chosen as a member 
unless, - 

(a) he has attained twenty-one years of age; and 

(b) his name is registered as an elector in the electoral roll of 
a ward in the Municipal area. 

8. (1) A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and 
for being a member of Corporation - 

(a) if he is so disqualified by or under any law for the time 
being in force for the purposes of elections to be 
Legislature of the state. 

(b) if he is so disqualified by or under any law made by 
the Legislature of the State. 

(2) A person shall also be disqualified for being chosen as, 

and for being a member - 

(a) if he is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a 
competent court; 

(b) if he is an undischarged involvent; 

(c) if he is not a citizen of India, or has voluntarily acquired 
the citizenship of a foreign State, or is under any 
acknowledgment of allegiance or adherence to a foreign 
State; 

(d) if he has, in proceedings for questioning the validity or 
regularity of an election, been found to have been guilty 
of- 

(i) any corrupt practice under section 22 of this Act; 

(ii) any offence punishable under section 171-E or 171 -F 
of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, or any offence 
punishable under section 30 or clause (a) of sub- 
section (2) of section 3 1 of this Act; 

unless a period of five years has elapsed since the date of the 

finding; 

(e) if he has been sentenced or convicted by a criminal court 
to imprisonment for an offence involving moral 
turpitude; 

(f) if he holds any office of profit under the Corporation; 

(g) if he is a licensed architect, draftsman, engineer, 
plumber, surveyor town planner or is a partner of a firm 
of which any such licensed person is also a partner; 

(h) if he holds nay office of profit under the Government; 


1 inserted by Haryana Act of 1995. 


(i) if he is interested in any subsisting contract made with, or 
any, work being done for the Corporation except as a 
share holder (other than a director) in an incorporated 
company or as a member of a co-operative society; 

(j) if he is retained or employed in any professional capacity 
either personally or in the name of a firm of which he is a 
partner or with which he is engaged in a professional 
capacity, in connection with any cause or proceedings in 
which the Corporation or any of municipal authorities is 
interested or concerned; 

(k) if he, having held any office under the Government, the 
Corporation or any other local authority, any 
Government company or any corporate body owned or 
controlled by the Government has been dismissed from 
service; 

(l) if he fails to pay any arrears of any kind due to him, 
otherwise, than as an agent, receiver, trustee or an 
executor, to the Corporation within three months after a 
notice in this behalf has been served upon him; 

(m) if, he has more than two living children; 

Provided that a person having more than two children on or 
upto the expiry of one year of the commencement of this Act, 
shall not be deemed to be disqualified. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) 
and (2) above- 

(a) a disqualification under clause(e) of sub-section (2) 
shall not take effect until three months have elapsed 
since the date of such disqualification or if within 
these three months an appeal or petition for revision 
is brought in respect of the conviction or sentence 
until that appeal or petition is disposed of; 

(b) a person shall not be deemed to have incurred any 
disqualification under clause (f), or clause (g) of 
sub-section (2) by reason only of his receiving- 

(i) any pension; or 

(ii) any allowance of facility for serving as a 
Mayor or Deputy Mayor or as a member; or 

(iii) any fee for attendance at a meeting of any 
committee of the Corporation; 

(c) a person shall not be deemed to have any interest in 
a contract or work such as is referred to in clause (i) 
of sub-section (2) by reason only of his having a 
share or interest in- 

(i) any lease, sale, exchange or purchase of 
immovable property or any agreement for the 
same; or 


(ii) any agreement for the loan of money or any 
security for the payment of money only; or 

(iii) any newspaper in which any advertisement 
relating to the affairs of the Corporation is 
inserted; or 

(iv) the sale to the Corporation or to any other 
municipal authority or any officer or other 
employee of the Corporation on behalf of the 
Corporation of any article in which he 
regularly trades or purchase fonn the 
Corporation or from any such authority, 
officer or other employee on behalf of the 
Corporation of any article of a value in either 
case not exceeding five thousand rupees in the 
aggregate in any year during the period of the 
contract or work; or 

(v) the letting out on hire to the Corporation or the 
hiring from the Corporation of any article of a 
value not exceeding two thousand rupees in 
the aggregate in any year during the period of 
the contract or work; 

(vi) any agreement or contract with the 
Corporation or any other municipal authority 
for taking water or any other thing which the 
Corporation may generally supply. 

(4) If a person sits or votes as a member of the Corporation 
when he is not qualified or that he is disqualified for such 
membership he shall be liable in respect of each day on which 
he so sits or votes to a penalty of five hundred rupees to be 
recovered as an arrear of tax under this Act. 

(5) If any question arises as to whether a member of the 
Corporation has become subject to any of the disqualifications 
mentioned in sub-sections (1) and (2), the question shall be 
referred for decision of such authority and in such manner as 
the Government may by notification provide. 

*[8A. (1) No person shall be an elected member of the 
Corporation, member of Legislative Assembly of the State or 
member of Parliament simultaneously. 

(2) If an elected member of the Corporation is elected to the 
Legislative Assembly or Parliament, as the case may be, he 
shall cease to continue as the elected member of the 
Corporation from the date he is declared as elected to the 
Legislative Assembly or Parliament, as the case may be]. 

9. (1) The superintendence, direction and control of the 


1 Inserted by Haryana Act, 11 of 1991. 


Restriction on 
simultaneous or 
double membership. 


Election to the 


Corporation. 


preparation of electoral rolls for, and the conduct of, all 
elections to the Corporation, shall be vested in the State 
Election Commission consisting of a State Election 
Commissioner to be appointed by the Governor. 

'“[(2) The State Election Commission shall consult the 
Government before announcing the date of election so that the 
Government as well as the Corporation may, if so requested by 
the State Election Commission, make available to the State 
Election Commission such staff as may be necessary for the 
discharge of the functions conferred on the State Election 
Commission under articles 243K and 243ZA of the 

Constitution of India and this Act.]” 

2 

[“(3) In case of reconstitution of the Corporation on account of 
the expiry of its duration of five years, such date shall not be 
earlier than 120 days before the expiry of duration. 

(4) In case of reconstitution of the Corporation on account 
of dissolution of the Corporation, where the remainder of the 
period for which the dissolved Corporation would have 
continued is six months or more than six months, such date 
shall not be later than two months after the date of dissolution 
of the Corporation. 

(5) In case of filling up of casual vacancy, as specified in 
section 13, where the remainder of the period for which the 
casual vacancy to be filled up is six months or more than six 
months, such date shall not be later than two months after the 
date of occurrence of such vacancy. 

(6) Such election shall be conducted in the manner as may 
be prescribed.”] 

Construction and 10. (1) The Government shall constitute Wards Committee 

composition of Wards consisting of one or more wards within the territorial area of the 
Committee etc. ^ , • • ,, , , , 

C orporation in the manner as may be prescribed. 

(2) A member of the Corporation representing a Ward within 
the territorial area of the Wards Committee shall be a member 
of that Wards Committee. 

(3) Where a Wards Committee consists of- 

(a) one ward, the member representing that ward in the 
Corporation; or 

(b) two or more wards, one of the members representing 
such wards in the Corporation elected by the 
members of the Wards Committee. 

shall be the Chairperson of that Wards Committee. 

(4) The Wards Committee constituted under this section shall 
be entrusted with such powers and functions as may be 
prescribed. 


1 Substituted by Haryana Act 15 of 2003. 

2 Added by Haryana Act 27 of 2004. 


Reservation of seats. 


11. (1) Seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes in 
the Corporation and the number of seats so reserved shall be if, 
as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number of 
seat to be filled by direct election in the Corporation, as the 
population of that area and such seats may be allotted by 
rotation to such wards having maximum population of persons 
belonging to Scheduled Castes. 

(2) Not less than one-third of the total number of seats 
reserved under sub-section(l) shall be reserved for women 
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and such seats may be 
allotted by rotation and by lots amongst the wards reserved 
under sub-section (1). 

(3) Not less than one -third (including the number of seats 
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes) of the 
total number of seats to be filled by direct election in the 
Corporation, shall be reserved for women and such seats may 
be allotted by rotation and by lots to different wards in the 
Corporation except those falling under sub-sections (1), (2) and 
(4). 

(4) Two seats in the Corporation shall be reserved for the 
persons belonging to Backward Classes which shall be allotted 
in such wards as having maximum population of persons 
belonging to Backward classes. 

1 [(5) The office of Mayor shall be filled up from amongst the 
members belonging to the general category, Scheduled Castes, 
Backward Classes and women by rotation and by lots in the 
manner as may be prescribed] 1 2 3[.] 

(6) The reservation of seats under sub-sections (1) and (2) 
and the filling up the offices of Mayor, 4[* ******* *] from 
the Scheduled Cates under sub-section (5), shall cease to have 
effect on the expiration of the period specified in article 334 of 
the Constitution. 

(7) The reservation of seats under sub-sections (1), (2), (4) 
and (5) shall be reviewed after every decennial census. 

(8) The reservations as enumerated in this section shall be 
given effect to, through notification issued at the time of each 
election. 

Right to votes. 12. Every person whose name is, for the time being entered 

in the electoral roll for a ward shall be entitled to vote at an 
election of a number from that ward. 

Filling of casual 13. (1) Whenever a vacancy occurring by death, resignation 


1 Substituted by Haryana Act 4 of 1995 w.e.f. 31-5-1994. 

2 Substituted by Haryana Act 15 of 2000. 

3 Added by Haryana Act 1 1 of 1997 and further Omitted by Haryana Act 15 of 2000. 

4 Omitted by Haryana Act 18 of 1999. 


vacancies. 


Publication of results 
of elections. 


Election petitions. 


Relief that may be 
claimed by the 
petitioner. 


or removal, or by vacation of a seat for any other reason, the 
vacancy shall be filled within six months of the occurrence of 
such vacancy: 

Provided that no election shall be held to fill a casual 
vacancy occurring within six months prior to the holding of a 
general election. 

(2) Every person elected or nominated to fill a casual 
vacancy shall be elected or nominated to serve for the 
remainder of his predecessor’s term of office. 

(3) If the vacancy be a vacancy reserved for any category, 
the vacancy will be filled from the same category. 

'[14. “(1) After the declaration of general election results, the 
names of elected members shall be published in the Official 
Gazette by the State Election Commission not earlier than one 
week before the expiry of the duration of the existing 
Corporation: 

Provided that notification regarding bye-election results shall 
be published in the Official Gazette by the State Election 
Commission forthwith.”] 

(2) The names of persons nominated as members shall be 
published by the Government as specified under sub-section (3) 
of section 4 of this Act. 

15. (1) No election of a member shall be called in question 
except by an election petition presented to the authority as may 
be prescribed within thirty days from the date of the publication 
of the result of the election under section 14. 

(2) An election petition calling in question any such election, 
may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified in 
sections 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 by any candidate at such election 
or by any elector of the ward concerned. 

(3) A petitioner shall join as respondent to his petition all the 
candidates at the election. 

(4) An election petition- 

(a) shall, contain a concise statement of the material facts 
on which the petitioner relies. 

(b) shall, with sufficient particulars, setforth the ground or 
grounds on which the election is called in question; 
and 

<c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the 
manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 
1908, for the verification of pleadings. 

16. (1) A petitioner may claim- 

(a) a declaration that the election of all or any of the 
returned candidates is void; and 

(b) in addition thereto, a further declaration that he 


1 Substituted by Haryana Act 15 of 2000. 


Grounds for declaring 
election to be void. 


himself or any other candidate has been duly elected. 
(2) The expression ‘returned candidate’ means a candidate 
whose name has been published in the Official Gazette under 
section 14. 

17. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), if the 
authority as may be prescribed, is of the opinion- 

(a) that on the date of his election a returned candidate 
was not qualified or was disqualified, to be chosen as a 
member; or 

(b) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a 
returned candidate or his agent or by any other person 
with the consent of a returned candidate or his agent; 
or 

(c) that any nomination paper has been improperly 
rejected; or 

(d) that the result of the election in so far as it concerns a 
returned candidate has been materially affected- 

(i) by the improper acceptance of any 

nomination; or 

(ii) by any corrupt practice committed in the 
interests of the returned candidate by a person 
other than the candidate or his agent or a 
person acting with the consent of such 
candidate or agent; or 

(iii) by the improper acceptance or refusal of any 
vote or reception of any vote which is void; or 

(iv) by the non-compliance with the provisions of 
this Act, or any rules or orders made 
thereunder, 

such authority shall declare the election of the returned 
candidate to be void. 

(2) If in the opinion of the prescribed authority, a returned 
candidate or his agent has been alleged to be guilty of any 
corrupt practice but the prescribed authority is satisfied- 

(a) that no such corrupt practice committed at the 
election by the candidate, or such corrupt practice 
was committed contrary to the orders, and without 
the consent of the candidate; 

(b) that the candidate took all reasonable means for 
preventing the commission of corrupt practices at 
the election; and 

(c) that in all other respects the election was free from 
any corrupt practice on the part of the candidate or 
any of his agents, 

such authority may decide that the election of the returned 
candidate is not void. 


Procedure to be 18. The procedure provided in the Code of Civil Procedure, 

followed by the 1908, in regard to suits, shall be followed by the prescribed 

prescribed Authority. authority, in the trial and disposal of an election petition under 

this Act. 

Decision of 19. (1) At the conclusion of the trial of an election petition, 

prescribed authority. the prescribed authority shall make an order- 

(a) dismissing the election petition; or 

(b) declaring the election of all or any of the returned 
candidates to be void; or 

(c) declaring the election of all or any of the returned 
candidates to be void and the petitioner and any other 
candidate to have been duly elected. 

(2) If any person, who has filed an election petition, has in 
addition to calling in question the election of the returned 
candidate, claimed declaration that he himself or any other 
candidate has been duly elected and the prescribed authority 
is of the opinion- 

(a) that in fact the petitioner or such other candidate received 
majority of the valid votes; or 

(b) that but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate 
the petitioner or such other candidate would have 
obtained a majority of the valid votes, 

such authority shall after declaring the election of the returned 
candidate to be void, declare the petitioner or such other 
candidate, as the case may be, to have been duly elected. 
Procedure in case of 20. If during the trial of an election petition it appears that 
equality of votes. there is an equality of votes between any candidates at the 
election and that the addition of a vote would entitle any of 
those candidates to be declared elected, then the prescribed 
authority shall decide between them by lot and proceed as if the 
one on whom the lot falls had received an additional vote. 

Finality of decision. 21. (1) Save as otherwise provided an order of the 

prescribed authority on an election petition shall be final. 

(2) An election of a member not called in question in 
accordance with the foregoing provisions shall be deemed to be 
a good and valid election. 

(3) Any person aggrieved by the order of the prescribed 
authority may file an appeal to the District Judge within a 
period of thirty days from the date of the order. 

Corrupt practices. 22. The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices 

for the purposes of this Act- 

(1) Bribery as defined in sub-section (1) of section 123 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

(2) Undue influence as defined in sub-section (2) of the 
said section. 

(3) An appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any 


other person with the consent of the candidate or his 
election agent to vote or refrain from voting on 
grounds of caste, race, community or religion or the 
use of or appeal to, religious symbols or, the use of 
or appeal to national symbols such as the national 
flag or the national emblem, for the furtherance of 
the prospects of that candidate’s election. 

(4) The publication by a candidate or his agent or by 
any other person with the consent of the candidate 
or his election agent of any statement of fact which 
is false, and which he either believes to be false or 
does not believe to be true, in relation to the 
personal character or conduct of any candidate, or in 
relation to the candidature or withdrawal from 
contest of any candidate being a statement 
reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of 
that candidate’s election. 

(5) The hiring or procuring weather on payment or 
otherwise of any vehicle or vessel by a candidate or 
his agent or by any other person with the consent of 
the candidate or his election agent or conveyance of 
any elector (other than the candidate himself, and 
the members of his family or his agent) to or from 
any polling station provided in accordance with the 
rules made under this Act: 

Provided that the hiring of a vehicle for vessel by an 
elector or by several electors at their joint costs for the propose 
of conveying him or them to or from any such polling station 
shall not be deemed to be a corrupt practice under this clause, if 
the vehicle or vessel so hired is a vehicle or vessel not propelled 
by mechanical power: 

Provided further that the use of any public transport 
vehicle or vessel or any railway carriage by an elector at his 
own cost for the purpose of going to or coming from any such 
polling station shall not be deemed to be a corrupt practice 
under this clause. 

Explanation. - In this sub-section the expression 
“vehicle” means any vehicle used or capable of being used for 
the purpose of road transport whether propelled by mechanical 
power or otherwise and whether used for drawing other 
vehicles or otherwise. 

(6) The holding of any meeting in which intoxicating 
liquors are served. 

(7) The issuing of any circular, placard or poster having 
a reference to the election which does not bear the 
name and address of the printer and publisher 


Maintenance of 
secrecy of voting. 


Officers etc. at 
election not to act for 
candidates or to 
influence voting. 


Prohibition of 
canvassing in or near 
polling station and of 
public meeting on 
election day. 


thereof. 

(8) Any other practice which the Government may by 
rules specify to be corrupt practice. 

23. (1) Every Officer or Clerk, agent or other person who 
performs any duty in connection with the recording or counting 
of votes at an election, shall maintain and aid in maintaining the 
secrecy of the voting and shall not (except for sum purpose 
authorised by or under any law) communicate to any person 
any infonnation calculated to violate such secrecy. 

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub- 
section (1), shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term 
which may extend to three months or with fine; or with both. 

24. (1) No person who is a returning officer, or an assistant 
returning officer or a presiding officer, polling officer at an 
election or an officer or clerk appointed by the returning officer 
or the presiding officer to perfonn any duty in connection with 
an election or a member of a police force, shall in the conduct 
or management of the election do any act (other than the giving 
of votes) for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of a 
candidate. 

(2) No such person as aforesaid shall endeavor- 

(a) to persuade any person to give his vote at an 
election; or 

(b) to dissuade any person for giving his vote at an 
election; or 

(c) to influence the voting of any person at an election in 
any manner. 

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions sub-section (1) 
or sub-section (2) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a 
term which may extend to six months or with fine, or with both. 

25. (1) No person shall, on the date or dates on which the 
poll is to take at any polling station, commit any of the 
following acts within the polling station, or in any public or 
private place within a distance of hundred meters of the polling 
station, namely :- 

(a) canvassing for votes; or 

(b) soliciting the votes of any elector; or 

(c) persuading any elector not to vote for any particular 
candidate; or 

(d) persuading any elector not to vote at the election; or 

(e) exhibiting any notice or sign (other than an official 
notice) relating to the election. 

(2) No person shall convene, hold or attend any public 
meeting within any ward on the date or dates on or at any time 


Penalty for disorderly 
conduct in or near 
polling station. 


Penalty for 
misconduct at the 
polling station. 


within twenty-four hours preceding the start of the poll for an 
election in that ward. 

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section 

(1) shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two 
hundred and fifty rupees. 

(4) An offence committed under sub-section (1) shall be 
cognizable. 

26. (1) No person shall, on the date or dates on which a poll 
is taken at any polling station- 

(a) use or operate within or at the entrance of the 
polling station or in any public or private place in 
the neighborhood thereof any apparatus for 
amplifying or reproducing the human voice, such as 
a megaphone or a loud-speaker ; or 

(b) shout or otherwise act in a disorderly manner, 
within or at the entrance of the polling station, or in 
any public or private place in the neighborhood 
thereof ; so as to cause annoyance to any person 
visiting the polling station for the poll, or so as to 
interfere with the work of the officer and other 
persons on duty at6 the polling station. 

(2) Any person who contravenes or willfully aids or abets the 
contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be 
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 
three months, or with fine, or with both. 

(3) If the presiding officer of a polling station has reason to 
believe that any person is committing or has committed an 
offence punishable under this section, he may direct any police 
officer to arrest such person, and thereupon the police officer 
shall arrest him. 

(4) Any police officer may take such steps and use such force 
as may be reasonably necessary for preventing any 
contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1), and may 
seize any apparatus used for such contravention. 

27. (1) Any person who during the hours fixed for the poll at 
any polling station, misconducts himself or fails to obey the 
lawful directions of the presiding officer, may be removed from 
the polling station by the presiding officer or by any police 
officer on duty or by any person authorised in this behalf by 
such presiding officer. 

(2) The powers conferred by sub-section (1) shall not be 
exercised so as to prevent any elector who is otherwise entitled 
to vote at a polling station from having an opportunity of voting 
at that station. 

(3) If any person who has been so removed from a polling 
station, re-enters the polling station without the pennission of 


Breaches of official 
duty in connection 
with election. 


Removal of ballot 
papers from polling 
station to be an 
offence. 


Offence of booth 
capturing. 


the presiding officer, he shall be punishable with imprisonment 
for a term which may extend to three months or with line, or 
with both. 

(4) An offence punishable under sub-section (3) shall be 
cognizable. 

28. (1) If any person to whom this section applies, is without 
reasonable cause guilty of any act or omission in breach of his 
official duty, he shall be punishable with line which may 
extend to five hundred rupees. An offence punishable under this 
section shall be cognizable. 

(2) No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against any 
such person for damages in respect of any such act or omission 
as aforesaid. 

(3) The persons to whom this section applies are returning 
officers, assistant returning officers, presiding officers, polling 
officers and any other person appointed to perform any duty in 
connection with receipt of nominations or withdrawal of 
candidatures or the recording or counting of votes at an 
election; and the expression “Official duty” shall for the 
purposes of this section be construed accordingly. 

29. (1) Any person who at an election fraudulently takes or 
attempts to take a ballot paper out of a polling station, or 
willfully aids or abets the doing of any such act shall be 
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 
one year, or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, 
or with both. 

(2) If the Presiding Officer of a polling station has reason 
to believe that any person is committing or has committed an 
offence punishable under sub-section (1), such officer may, 
before such person leaves the polling station, arrest or direct a 
police officer to arrest such person and may search such person 
or cause him to be searched by a police officer : 

Provided that when it is necessary to cause a woman to be 
searched, the search shall be made by another woman with 
strict regard to decency. 

(3) Any ballot paper found upon the person arrested on 
search shall be made over for safe custody to a police officer by 
the presiding officer or when the search is made by a police 
officer, shall be kept by such officer in safe custody. 

(4) An offence punishable under sub-section (1) shall be 
cognizable. 

30. Whoever commits an offence of booth capturing, shall 
be punishable with imprisonment for a tenn which shall not be 
less than six months but which may extend to two years and 
with line, and where such offence is committed by a person in 
the service of the Government, he shall be punishable with 


imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year 
but which may extend to three years and with fine. 

Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, “booth 
capturing” includes, among other things, all or any of the 
following activities, namely:- 

(a) seizure of a polling station or a place fixed for the 
poll by any person or persons making poling 
authorities surrender the ballot papers or voting 
machines and doing of any other act which effects 
the orderly conduct of elections; 

(b) taking possession of a polling station or a place fixed 
for the poll by any person or persons and allowing 
only his or their own supporters to exercise their 
right to vote and prevent others from voting; 

(c) threatening any elector and preventing him from 
going to the polling station or a place fixed for the 
poll, to cast his vote; 

(d) seizure of place for counting of votes by any person 
or person making the counting authorities surrender 
the ballot papers or voting machines and the doing of 
anything which effect the orderly counting of votes; 

(e) doing by any person in the service of Government, of 
all or any of the aforesaid activities or aiding or 
coving at, any such activity in the furtherance of the 
prospects of the election of a candidate. 

Other offence and 31. (1) A person shall be guilty of an electoral offence, if at 

penalties. any election he- 

(a) fraudulently defaces, destroys any nomination paper; 
or 

(b) fraudulently defaces, destroys or removes any list, 
notice or other document affixed by or under the 
authority of the Returning Officer ; or 

(c) fraudulently defaces or destroys any ballot paper of the 
official mark on any ballot-paper or any declaration or 
identity or official envelops used in connection with 
voting by postal ballot; or 

(d) without due authority supplies any ballot paper to any 
person or receives any ballot paper from any person or 
is in possession of any ballot paper ; or 

(e) fraudulently puts into any ballot-box any thing other 
than the ballot paper which he is authorised by law to 
put in ; or 

(f) without due authority destroys, takes, opens or 
otherwise interferes with any ballot box or ballot paper 
then in the use for the purpose of the election ; or 

(g) fraudulently or without due authority, as the case may 


Power to make rules 
regulating the election 
of members. 


be, attempts to do any of the foregoing acts or willfully 
aids or abets the doing of any such acts. 

(2) Any person guilty of an offence under this section shall- 

(a) If he is returning officer or an assistant returning officer 
or a presiding officer or a polling officer or any other 
officer or clerk employed on official duty in connection 
with the election, be punishable with imprisonment for a 
term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or 
with both; 

(b) If he is any other person, be punishable with 
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six 
months, or with fine, or with both. 

(3) For the purposes of this section, a person shall be deemed 
to be on official duty if his duty is to take part in the conduct of 
any election or part of an elections including the counting of 
votes or to be responsible after an election for the used ballot 
papers and other documents in connection with such election. 

(4) An offence punishable under sub-section (2) shall be 
cognizable. 

(5) No court shall take cognizance of any offence under 
section 25, under section 29, or under clause (a) of sub-section 
(2) of this section unless there is a complaint made by order of, 
or under authority from the State Election Commissioner. 

32. (1) The Government may, in consultation with State 
Election Commission , make rules to provide for or regulate all 
or any of the following matters for the purpose of holding 
elections of members under this Act, namely:- 

(a) qualifications of elector and the preparation, 
publication, correction and revision of electoral 
rolls; 

(b) the appointment of returning officer, assistant 
returning officers, presiding officers and polling 
officers for the conduct of elections; 

(c) the nomination of candidates, fonn of nomination 
papers, objections to nominations and scrutiny of 
nominations; 

(d) the deposits to be made by candidates, time and 
manner of making such deposits and the 
circumstances under which such deposits may be 
refunded to candidates or forfeited to the 
Corporation; 

(e) the withdrawal of candidature; 

(f) the appointment of agents of candidates; 

(g) the procedure in contested and uncontested 
elections; 

(h) the date, time and place for poll and other matters 


relating to the conduct of elections including- 

i) the appointment of polling stations for each ward; 

ii) the hours during which the polling station shall be 

kept open for the casting of votes; 

iii) the printing and issue of ballot papers; 

iv) the checking of voters by reference to electoral 

poll; 

v) the marking with indelible ink of the left fore- 
finger or any other finger or limb of the voter and 
prohibition of the delivery of the ballot paper to 
any person if at the time such person applies for 
such paper he has already such mark, so as to 
prevent personating of voters; 

vi) the manner in which votes are to be given and in 
particular in the case of illiterate voters or of 
voters under physical or other disability; 

vii) the procedure to be followed in respect of 
challenged votes and tendered votes; 

viii) the scrutiny of votes, counting of votes, the 
declaration of the results and the procedure in case 
of equality of votes or in the event of a member 
being elected to represent more than one ward; 

ix) the custody and disposal of papers relating to 
elections; 

x) the suspension of polls in case of any interruption 
by riot, violence or any other sufficient cause and 
the holding of a fresh poll; 

xi) the holding of a fresh poll in the case of 
destruction of or tampering with the ballot boxes 
before counting; 

xii) the countennanding of the poll in the case of the 
death of a candidate before the poll; 

(i) the requisitioning of premises, vehicles, vessels or 
animals, payment of compensation in connection 
with such requisitioning, eviction from 
requisitioned premises and release of premises from 
requisition; 

(j) the fee to be paid on an election petition; 

(k) any other matter relating to elections or election 
disputes which the Government deems it necessary 
to make rules under this section or in respect of 
which this Act, makes no provisions or makes 
insufficient provision and provision is, in the 
opinion of the Government, necessary. 

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of any rule 
framed under this section shall be punishable with fine which 


may extend to one thousand rupees. 


Oath of affirmation 
by member. 


Removal of and 
resignation by 
members. 


33. ’[(1) Every elected member shall, before taking his seat, 
make and subscribe at a meeting of the Corporation an oath or 
affirmation according to the following form, natnely:- 

I having been elected as a member 

of the Municipal Corporation of do 

swear in the name of God that I will bear true faith 
and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law 
established and that I will faithfully discharge the 
duty upon which I am about to enter.] 

(2) If a person sits or votes as member before he has 
complied with the requirements of sub-section (1), he shall be 
liable in respect of each day on which he so sits or votes to a 
penalty of five hundred rupees to be recovered as an arrear of 
tax under this Act, and his vote will be considered invalid. 

34. (1) The Government may, by notification, remove any 
member, if in its onion- 

(a) he becomes subject to any of the disqualifications 
mentioned in section 8 ; or 

(b) he has flagrantly abused his position as a member or 
has through negligence or misconduct been 
responsible for the loss or misapplication of any 
money or property of the Corporation; or 

(c) he has become physically or mentally incapacitated 
for perfonning his duties as a member; or 

(d) he absents himself during three successive months 
from the meetings of the Corporation; or 

(e) he acts in contravention of the provisions of section 
60 1 2 3[; or] 

•j 

[“(f) he has, since his election or nomination, become 
subject to any disqualification which, if it had existed at the 
time of his election or nomination, would have rendered him 
ineligible under any law for the time being in force 
regulating the qualifications of candidates for election or 
nomination, or if it appears that he was, at the time of his 
election or nomination subject to any such disqualification:] 
Provided that before making an order under this section 
reasonable opportunity shall be given to the member to be 
heard and to show cause against such an order. 

(2) If a member resigns his seat by writing under his hand 
addressed to the Commissioner, he shall cease to be a 
member on the date of acceptance of his resignation and his 


1 Substituted by Haryana Act 4 of 1995 

2 Substituted by Haryana Act 4 of 1995 

3 Instituted by Haryana Act 22 of 2002. 


office shall thereupon fall vacant. 


Suspension of 
Members. 


Payment of 
allowances to 
members. 


Election of Mayor, 
Senior Deputy 
Mayor, Deputy 
Mayor, and their term 
of office. 


1 [“34- A. (1) The Commissioner of the Division may, 
suspend any member of a Corporation where- 

(a) a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is 
under investigation, enquiry or trial, if in the opinion of 
the Commissioner of Division the charge made or 
proceedings taken against him, are likely to embarrass 
him in the discharge of his duties or involves moral 
turpitude or defect of a character; 
during the course of an enquiry for any of the reasons for 
which he can be removed under section 34, after giving him 
a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

35. The members shall be entitled to receive allowances for 
attendance at meetings of the Corporation and of its 
committees at such rate as may be notified by the 
Government in the Official Gazette. 

36. "[(1) The Corporation shall elect {one of its elected 
members} to be Mayor for such period and in the manner as 
may be prescribed and the member so elected shall become 
Mayor of the Corporation: 

Provided that if the office of Mayor is vacated during his tenure 
on account of death, resignation or no confidence motion, a 
fresh election within a period of one month of the vacancy shall 
be held from the same category, for the remainder period.] 

4[(2) The Corporation shall also elect in the manner 
prescribed, 1 2 3 4 {two of its elected members} to be the Senior 
Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, The term of office of the 
Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor shall be for a period 
of five years or for the residue period of their offices as a 
member, whichever is less: 

Provided that if the office of the Senior Deputy Mayor or 
Deputy Mayor is vacated during his tenure on account of death, 
resignation or no confidence motion, a fresh election for the 
remainder period shall be held within one month of the 
vacancy.] 

(3) The Mayor shall be entitled to the payment of such 
honorarium and may be given such facilities in respect of 
residential accommodation, telephone, conveyance and the like 
as may be prescribed. 

(4) The Mayor shall have access to the record of the 
Corporation and may issue directions to the Commissioner or 


1 inserted by Haryana Act 18 of 1999. 

2 Substituted by Haryana Act 4 of 1995. 

3 Substituted by Haryana Act 19 of 1996. 

4 Substituted by Haryana Act 19 of 1996. 


Removal of Mayor, 
Senior Deputy 
Mayor, and Deputy 
Mayor. 


Suspension of Mayor, 
Senior Deputy Mayor 
and Deputy Mayor. 


call for reports from him with a view to ensure proper 
implementation of the decision of the Corporation. 

37. A member holding office as Mayor or Senior Deputy 
Mayor or Deputy Mayor may be removed from his office by 
a resolution of the Corporation passed by a majority of '[not 
less than two-thirds of the elected members] of the 
Corporation, in the manner as may be prescribed. 

2[37A (1) The Commissioner of the Division may suspend 
Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor of a 
Corporation where- 

(a) a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is 
under investigation, enquiry or trial, if in the opinion of 
the Commissioner of the Division, the charge made or 
proceedings taken against him, are likely to embarrass 
him in the discharge of his duties or involves moral 
turpitude or defect of a character; 

(b) during the course of an enquiry for any of the reasons for 
which he can be removed under section 37, after giving 
him a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 


Discharge of 
functions of the 
Mayor by Deputy 
Mayor. 


(2) A Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor or Deputy Mayor, as the 
case may be, suspended under sub-section (1), shall not take 
part in any act or proceedings of the Corporation during the 
period of suspension and shall hand over the records, money or 
any other property of the Corporation in his possession or under 
his control- 

id) to Senior Deputy Mayor if he is Mayor; 

(ii) to Mayor if he is Senior Deputy Mayor or Deputy Mayor; 
and 

(iii) in case the Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy 
Mayor are suspended, to such person as Commissioner of 
Division may appoint in this behalf: 

Provided that the suspension period of Mayor, Senior Deputy 
Mayor or Deputy Mayor, as the case may be, shall not exceed 
six months from the date of issuance of suspension order except 
in criminal cases, involving moral turpitude. 

(3) Any person aggrieved by an order passed under sub-section 
(1) may, within a period of thirty days from the communication 
of the order, prefer an appeal to the Government. 

38. (1) When the office of the Mayor is vacant, the Senior 
Deputy Mayor and in his absence, the Deputy Mayor shall act 
as Mayor until a new Mayor is elected. 

(2) When the Mayor is absent from duty on account of illness 
or any other cause, the Senior Deputy Mayor, and in his 


1 Substituted by Haryana Act 19 of 1996. 

2 Inserted by Haryana Act 18 of 1999. 


absence the Deputy Mayor, shall act a Mayor during his 
absence. 

Resignation of Mayor 39. (1) The Mayor may, by writing under his hand addressed 
and Deputy Mayors. j-0 qlc Commissioner, resign his office. 

(2) The Senior Deputy Mayor or the Deputy Mayor may, by 
writing under his hand addressed to the Mayor, resign his 
office. 

(3) A resignation under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) 
shall take effect from the date of its acceptance. 

Ad hoc committees. 40. (1) The Corporation may constitute as many ad hoc 
Committees consisting of such number of members and experts 
for such term as it thinks fit for the exercise of any power or 
discharge of any function which the Corporation may by 
resolution delegate to them or for inquiring into, reporting or 
advising upon any matter which the Corporation may refer 
them. 

(2) The Corporation shall constitute a Water Supply and 
Sewerage Disposal Committee, a Buildings and Roads 
Committee, a House Tax Assessment Committee and such 
other committees as may be prescribed consisting of such 
number of members and for the exercise of such powers or 
discharge of such functions as may be prescribed. 

(3) There shall also be a Finance and Contracts Committee of 
the Corporation Comprising the Mayor, the two Deputy 
Mayors, two members elected by the members from amongst 
themselves and the Commissioner, and the aforesaid 
Committee shall exercise all the powers of the Corporation in 
relation to contracts to be entered into for and on its behalf and 
the purchases to be made by it. 

(4) Each committee shall elect one of its members as the 
Chainnan and another member as the Vice-Chainnan: 

Provided that the Mayor shall be ex-officio Chairman of the 
Finance and Contract Committee. 

(5) Any matter relating to Committees not expressly 
provided in this Act, may be provided by regulations made in 
this behalf. 

CHAPTER-III 

FUNCTIONS OF THE CORPORATION 

General powers of 41. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules, 

Corporation. regulations and bye-laws made thereunder, the municipal 

administration of the Municipal area shall vest in the 
Corporation. 

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of 
sub-section (1) it shall be the duty of the Corporation to 
consider all periodical statements of the receipts and 
disbursement and all progress reports and pass such resolution 


Functions of 
Corporation to be 
entrusted by the 
Government. 


Obligatory functions 
of Corporations. 


thereon as it deems fit. 

42. Subjects to the provisions of the Constitution, the 
Government may, by order entrust the Corporation with such 
powers and authority as may be necessary to enable it to 
function as institution of local Government and such order may 
contain provisions for the devolution of powers, functions and 
responsibilities upon the Corporation, preparations of plans for 
economic development and social justice including the 
functions in respect of the following matters, namely: - 

(1) Urban planning including town planning. 

(2) Regulations of land-used construction of buildings. 

(3) Planning for economic and social development. 

(4) Roads and bridges. 

(5) Water supply for domestic, industrial and commercial 
purposes. 

(6) Public health, sanitation conservancy and solid waste 
management. 

(7) Fire services. 

(8) Urban forestry, protection of the environment and 
promotion of ecological aspects. 

(9) Safeguarding the interest of weaker sections of 
society, including the handicapped and mentally 
retarded. 

( 1 0) Slum improvement and upgradation. 

(11) Urban poverty alleviation. 

(12) Provision of urban amenities and facilities such as 
parks, gardens, play-grounds. 

(13) Promotion of cultural, educational and aesthetic 
aspects. 

(14) Burials and burial grounds, cremations, cremation 
grounds and electric crematoriums. 

(15) Cattle ponds, prevention of cruelty to animals. 

(16) Vital statistics including registration of births and 
deaths. 

(17) Public amenities including street lighting, parking 
lots, bus stops and public conveniences. 

(18) Regulations of slaughter houses and tanneries. 

43. It shall be incumbent on the Corporation to make 
adequate provisions, by any means or measures which it may 
lawfully use or take, for each of the following matters, namely: 

(a) the construction, maintenance and cleaning of drains 
and drainage works and of public latrines, urinals and 
similar conveniences; 

(b) the construction and maintenance of works and means 
for providing supply of water for public and private 


Diserectionary 
functions of the 
Corporation. 


purposes; 

(c) the scavenging, removal and disposal of filth, rubbish 
and other obnoxious or polluted matters; 

(d) the reclamation of unhealthy localities, the removal of 
noxious vegetation and generally the abatement of all 
nuisances; 

(e) the regulation of places for the disposal of the dead 
and the provision and maintenance of places for the 
said purpose; 

(f) the construction and maintenance of cattle pond; 

(g) measures for preventing the checking the spread of 
dangerous diseases; 

(h) the construction and maintenance of municipal 
markets and the regulation thereof; 

(i) the regulation and abatement of offensive or 
dangerous trades or practices; 

(j) the securing or removal of dangerous buildings and 
places; 

(k) the construction, maintenance, alteration and 
improvements of public streets, bridges, culverts, 
causeways and the like; 

(l) the lighting, watering and cleaning of public streets 
and other public places; 

(m) the removal of obstructions and projections in or upon 
streets, bridges and other public places; 

(n) the naming and numbering of streets and premises; 

(o) the maintenance of municipal offices; 

(p) the laying out of the maintenance of public parks, 
gardens or recreation grounds; 

(q) the maintenance of a fire-brigade and the protection of 
life and property in the case of fire; 

(r) the maintenance of monuments and memorials vested 
in a local authority in the Municipal area immediately 
before the commencement of this Act or which may 
be vested in the Corporation after such 
commencement; 

(s) the maintenance and development of the value of all 
properties vested in or entrusted to the management of 
the Corporation; 

(t) the fulfillment of any other obligation imposed by or 
under this Act or any other law for the time being in 
force; 

(u) planting and care of trees on road sides, etc.; and 

(v) survey of buildings and lands. 

44. The Corporation may provide either wholly or in part for 
all or any of the following matters, namely: - 


(a) the furtherance of education including cultural and 
physical education; 

(b) the establishment and maintenance of, and aid to 
libraries, museums, art galleries, botanical or 
zoological collections; 

(c) the establishment and maintenance of, and aid to 
stadia, gymnasia, kharas and places for sports and 
games; 

(d) the registration of marriages; 

(e) the taking of a census of population; 

(f) the civic reception to persons of distinction; 

(g) the providing of music or other entertainments in 
public places or places of public resort and the 
establishment of theatres and cinemas; 

(h) the organisation and management of fairs and 
exhibitions; 

(i) the construction and maintenance of- 

(i) rest houses; 

(ii) poor houses; 

(iii) Infirmaries; 

(iv) children’s homes; 

(v) houses for the deaf and dumb and for disabled and 
handicapped children; 

(vi) shelters for destitute and disabled persons; 

(vii) asylums for persons of unsound mind; 

(j) the building or purchase and maintenance of dwelling 
houses for Corporation officers and other Corporation 
employees; 

(k) any measures for the welfare of the Corporation 

officers and other Corporation employees or any class 
of them including the sanctioning o loans to such 
officers and employees or any class of them for 
construction of houses and purchases of vehicles; 

(l) the organization or management of chemical or 
bacteriological laboratories for the examination or 
analysis of water, food and drugs for the detection of 
diseases or research connected with the public health 
or medical relief; 

(m) the provision for relief to destitute and disabled 

persons; 

(n) public vaccination and inculcation; 

(o) the organization, construction, maintenance and 

management of swimming pools, public wash houses, 
bathing places and other institution designed for the 
improvement of public health; 

(p) the organization and management of farms and dairies 


within or outside the Municipal area for the supply, 
distribution and processing of Milk and milk products 
for the benefits of the residents of the Municipal area; 

(q) the organization and management of cottage industries, 
handicraft centers and sales emporia; 

(r) the construction and maintenance of warehouses and 
god owns; 

(s) the construction and maintenance of garages, sheds 
and stands for vehicles and cattle biers; 

(t) the provisions for unfiltered water supply; 

(u) the improvement of the Municipal area in accordance 
with improvement schemes approved by the 
Corporation; 

(v) the provision of housing accommodation for the 
inhabitants of any area or for any class of inhabitants; 

(w) the establishment and maintenance of hospitals, 
dispensaries and maternity and child welfare centers 
and the carrying out of other measures necessary for 
public medical relief; 

(x) any measures not hereinbefore specifically mentioned, 
likely to promote public safety, health, convenience or 
general welfare. 

CHAPTER-IV 


Appointment of 
Commissioner. 


Salary and allowances 
of Commissioner. 


MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES UNDER THE 
CORPORATION 

45. (1) The Government shall by notification in the Official 
Gazette, appoint an I.A.S. Officer having a minimum service as 
such of at least five years, as the Commissioner of the 
Corporation. 

(2) Subject to the provision of sub-section (3) the 
Commissioner so appointed shall hold office for a term of three 
years in the first instances: 

Provided that his appointment may be renewed for a term 
not exceeding three years: 

Provided further that no officer who has attained the age of 
superannuating, shall be appointed or continue as 
Commissioner. 

(3) The Government- 

1 [ (a) * * * * ] 

(b) may recall the Commissioner at any time during the 
term of his appointment. 

46. The Commissioner shall be paid out of the Corporation 
Fund such monthly salary and such monthly allowances, as 
may from time to time be fixed by the Government and may be 


1 Omitted Haryana Act 15 of 2000 


Leave etc. of 
Commissioner. 


Contribution by 
Corporation. 


Functions of the 
Commissioner. 


Power of Corporation 
to require 
Commissioner to 
produce documents 
and furnish returns, 
reports etc. 


given such facilities in relation to residential accommodation, 
conveyance and the like as may from time to time be fixed by 
the Government. 

47. Whenever the Commissioner is on leave, or is sent on 
training another officer may be appointed by the Government 
in his place 

48. The Corporation shall make such contribution towards 
leave, allowances, pension and provident fund of the 
Commissioner as may be required by the conditions of his 
service under the Government. 

49. Save as otherwise provided in this Act, and subject to 
general supervision and control of the Corporation the 
executive power, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions 
of this Act, and of any other Act for the time being in force 
which confers any power or impose any duty on the 
Corporation, shall vest in the Commissioner, who hall also- 

(a) exercise all the powers and perform all the 
duties specifically conferred or imposed upon 
him by this Act or by any other law for the 
time being in force; 

(b) Prescribe the duties of and exercise 
supervision and control over the acts and 
proceedings of all Corporation officers and 
other Corporation employees and subject to 
any rules that may be made under section 67 
dispose of all questions relating to the service 
of the said officers and other employees and 
their pay, privileges, allowances and other 
conditions of service; 

(c) On the occurrence or threatened occurrence of 
any sudden accident or any unforeseen event 
or natural calamity involving or likely to 
involve extensive damage to any property of 
the Corporation, or danger to human life, take 
such immediate action as he considers 
necessary and make a report forthwith to the 
Corporation of the action he has taken and the 
reasons for the same as also of the amount of 
cost, if any, incurred or likely to be incurred in 
consequence of such action, which is not 
covered by a budget grant. 

50. (1) The Corporation may at any time require the 
Commissioner- 

(a) to produce any record, correspondence, plans or other 
documents which is in his possession or under his 
control as Commissioner or which is recorded or filed 


Exercise of powers to 
be subject to sanction. 


Meetings. 


in his office or in the office of any Corporation 
Officer or other Corporation employee subordinate to 
him; 

(b) to furnish any return, plan, estimate, statement, 
account of statistics concerning or connected with 
any matter pertaining to the administration of this 
Act, or any Municipal authority; 

(c) to furnish a report by himself or to obtain from any 
Corporation officer or other employee subordinate to 
him and furnish with his own remarks thereon, a 
report upon any subject concerning or connected with 
the administration of this Act, or any Municipal 
authority. 

(2) Every such requisition shall be complied with by the 
Commissioner without any unreasonable delay; and it shall be 
incumbent on every Corporation officer and other Corporation 
employee to obey and order made by the Commissioner in 
pursuance of any such requisition: 

Provided that the Commissioner shall not be bound to 
comply with any such requisition if with the previous approval 
of the Mayor he makes a statement that such compliance would 
be prejudicial to public interest or to the interest of the 
Corporation. 

51. Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the exercise of 
any power or the perfonnance of any duty conferred or 
imposed upon the Corporation or any other authorities by or 
under this Act, which will involve expenditure, shall be subject 
to the following conditions, namely:- 

(a) that such expenditure, in so far as it is to be incurred 
in the year in which such power is exercised or duty 
performed, shall be provided for under a current 
budget-grant; and 

(b) that if the exercise of such power or the performance 
of such duty involve or is likely to involve 
expenditure for any period or at any time after the 
close of the said year, such expenditure shall not be 
incurred without the sanction of the Corporation. 

CHAPTER-V 

PROCEDURE 

Transaction of Business by the Corporation 

52. (1) The Corporation shall ordinarily hold at least one 
meeting in every month for the transaction of its business. 

(2) The Mayor or in his absence the Senior Deputy 
Mayor, and in the absence of both, the Deputy Mayor may, 


First meeting of 
Corporation after 
general election for 
election of Mayor. 


Notice of meetings 
and business 


Quorum. 


whenever he thinks fit, and shall upon a requisition in writing 
by not less than one- fourth of the total number of members, 
convene a special meeting of the Corporation. 

(3) Any meeting may be adjourned until the next or any 
subsequent date, and an adjourned meeting may be further 
adjourned in like manner. 

53. (1) The First meeting of the Corporation after general 
elections shall be held as early as possible but not later than 
thirty days after the publication of the results of the election of 
the members under section 14 and shall be convened by the 
Divisional Commissioner. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 56, for 
election of the Mayor, the Divisional Commissioner shall 
nominate a member who is not a candidate for such election to 
preside over the meeting. 

(3) If during the election of Mayor it appears that there is an 
equality of votes between the candidates at such election and 
that the addition of a vote would entitle any of the candidates to 
be elected as Mayor, then the person presiding over the 
meeting shall decide between them by lot to be drawn in the 
presence of the candidates and in such manner as he may 
detennine, and the candidate on whom the lot falls shall be 
deemed to have received an additional vote. 

54. A list of the business to be transacted at every meeting 
except at an adjourned meeting shall be sent at the recorded 
address of each member at least five days before the time fixed 
for such meeting other than the business of which a notice has 
been so given: 

Provided that an urgent meeting may be called on a notice 
of a lesser period than five days: 

Provided further that any member may send or deliver to 
the Corporation Secretary notice of any business going beyond 
the matters mentioned in the notice given of such meetings so 
as to reach him at least forty-eight hours before the date fixed 
for the meeting and the Corporation Secretary shall with all 
possible dispatch take steps to circulate such resolution to 
every member in such manner as he may think fit: 

Provided further that such other business or resolution 
may be transacted or taken up only with the permission of the 
Chair. 

55. (1) The quorum necessary for the transaction of business 
at a meeting of the Corporation shall be one-third of the total 
number of members. 

(2) If at any time during a meeting of the Corporation there 
is no quorum it shall be the duty of the Mayor or the person 
presiding over such meeting either to adjourn the meeting or to 


Presiding officer. 


Method of deciding 
question. 


Maintenance of order 
at and admission of 
public to meetings 
with drawl and 
suspension of 
members. 


suspend the meeting until there is a quorum. 

(3) Where a meeting has been adjourned under sub-section 
(2), the business which would have been brought before the 
original meeting if there had been a quorum present thereat, 
shall be brought before, and may be transacted at an adjourned 
meeting, whether there is quorum present or not: 

Provided that notice of an adjourned meeting under sub- 
sections (2) and (3) shall be given to all members. 

56. (1) The Mayor or in his absence, the Senior Deputy 
Mayor, and in the absence of the both, the Deputy Mayor shall 
preside over at every meeting of the Corporation. 

(2) In the absence of both the Mayor and the Deputy 
Mayors from the meeting the members present shall elect one 
from among their own members to preside. 

(3) The Mayor or the person presiding over a meeting 
shall have and exercise a second or a casting vote in all cases of 
equality of votes. 

57. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, all matters 
required to be decided by the Corporation shall be decided by 
majority of the votes of members present and voting. 

(2) The voting shall be by show of had, but the 
Corporation may subject to such regulations as may be made 
by it, resolve that any question or class of questions shall be 
decided by secret ballot. 

(3) At any meeting, unless voting be demanded by at least 
four members a declaration by the presiding officer at such 
meeting that a resolution has been carried or lost, and an entry 
to that effect in the minutes of the proceedings shall, for the 
purposes of this Act, be conclusive evidence of the fact without 
proof of the number or proportion of the votes recorded in 
favour of or against such resolution. 

(4) If voting as aforesaid is demanded, the votes of all of 
the members present who desire to vote shall be taken under 
the direction of the Presiding Officer at the meeting and the 
result of the voting shall be deemed to be resolution of the 
Corporation at such meeting. 

58. (1) The Mayor or the person presiding over a meeting 
shall preserve order thereat and shall have all powers necessary 
for the purpose of preserving such order. 

(2) The Mayor or the person presiding over a meeting 
may direct any member whose conduct is in his opinion 
disorderly to withdraw immediately from the meeting, and any 
member so directed to withdraw shall do so forthwith and shall 
absent himself during the remainder of the meeting. 

(3) If any member is ordered to withdraw a second time 
within fifteen days, the Mayor or the person presiding may 


Member not to vote 
on matter in which he 
is interested. 


Right to attend 
meetings of 
Corporation and its 
committees, etc. and 
right of members to 
ask questions in 
relation to the 
administration of 
Municipal area. 


suspend such member from attending the meetings of the 
Corporation for a period not exceeding fifteen days and the 
member so suspended shall absent himself accordingly: 

Provided that the Mayor or the person presiding may at 
any time cancel such suspension: 

Provided further that such suspension shall not debar the 
suspended member from serving on any committee of the 
Corporation of which he is a member. 

(4) Subject to sub-section (5), every meeting shall be open 
to the public unless a majority of the members present at the 
meeting decide that any inquiry or deliberation pending before 
the Corporation shall be held in camera. 

(5) The Corporation may make regulations for the purpose 
of admission of the members of the public to its meetings and 
for the removal by force if necessary, of any member of the 
public admitted to a meeting for interrupting or disturbing the 
proceedings of the meetings. 

(6) The Corporation may make regulations for removal of 
members for disorderly conduct. 

(7) In the case of grave disorder arising in a meeting the 
Mayor or the person presiding may, if he thinks it necessary to 
do so, adjourn the meeting to a date or time specified by him. 

59. No member shall vote at a meeting of the Corporation or 
of any Committee thereof on any question relating to his own 
conduct or vote or take part in any discussion on any matter 
(other than a matter affecting generally the residents of the 
Municipal area or of any particular ward), which affects his 
pecuniary interest or any property in respect of which he is 
directly or indirectly interested, or any property of or for which 
he is a manager or an agent. 

60. (1) The Commissioner or any Corporation Officer 
authorised by him in this behalf may attend, speak in, or 
otherwise take part in the proceedings of any meeting of the 
Corporation or any of its Committee, but he shall not be 
entitled to vote in any such meeting. 

(2) A member may, subject to the provisions of sub- 
section (3), ask the Commissioner, during first half of an hour 
of every meeting, question on any matter relating to the 
Municipal administration of the area or the administration of 
this Act. 

(3) The right to ask a question shall be governed by the 


following conditions, namely:- 

(a) The right to ask a question shall be governed by the 
following conditions, namely:- 

(b) No question shall- 

i) bring in any name or statement not strictly 
necessary to make the question intelligible; 

ii) contain arguments, ironical expression, 
imputations, epithets or defamatory 
statement; 

iii) ask for an expression of opinion or the 
solution of a hypothetical proposition; 

iv) ask as to the character or conduct of any 
person except in his official or public 
capacity; 

v) relate to a matter which is not primarily the 
concern of the Corporation or any of the 
municipal authorities; 

vi) make or imply a charge of a personal 
character; 

vii) raise question of policy too large to be dealt 
with within the limits of an answer to a 
question; 

viii) repeat in substance questions already 
answered or to which an answer has been 
refused; 

ix) ask for information on trivial matters; 

x) ordinarily ask for information on matters of 
past history; 

xi) ask for infonnation set forth in accessible 
documents or in ordinary works of reference; 

xii) raise matters under the control of bodies or 
persons not primarily responsible to the 
Corporation; or 

xiii) ask for any information on a matter which is 
under adjudication by a Court of Law. 

(4) The Mayor shall disallow any question which is, in his 
opinion in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (3). 

(5) If any doubt arises whether any question is or is not in 
contravention of the provisions of sub-section (3), the Mayor 
shall decide the point and his decision shall be final. 

(6) The Commissioner shall not be bound to answer a question 
if it asks for information which has been communicated to him 
in confidence or in the opinion of the Mayor it cannot be 
answered without prejudice to public interest or the interest of 
the Corporation. 

(7) Unless otherwise directed by the Mayor or the presiding 


Powers to make 
regulations. 


Presiding Officer at 
meeting of ad hoc 
committees. 


Keeping of minutes 
and proceedings. 


Circulation of 
minutes and 
inspection of minutes 
and 


Forwarding minutes 
and reports of 
proceedings to the 
Government. 


Validation of 
proceedings etc. 


officer of the meeting every question shall be answered by the 
Commissioner at a meeting of the Corporation. 

61. The Corporation may make regulations for the 
transaction of business at its meetings and at the meetings of its 
ad hoc committees and the manner in which notice of such 
meetings shall be given: 

Provided that the time, place and procedure for the first 
meeting after the constitution of the Corporation under section 
4 shall be detennined by the Divisional Commissioner. 

62. (1) The Chainnan or in his absence the Vice-Chairman 
shall preside at every meeting of the ad hoc committee. 

(2) In the absence of the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman 
from any meeting the members of any such Committee shall 
choose one of their members to preside over the meeting. 

63. Minutes, in which shall be recorded the names of the 
members present at and the proceedings of each meeting of the 
Corporation or of the committee, shall be drawn up and 
recorded by the Corporation Secretary in a book to be kept for 
that purpose and shall be laid before the next ensuing meeting 
of the Corporation or of the Committee, as the case may be, 
and shall be signed at such meeting by the presiding officer 
thereof. 

64. Minutes of the proceedings of each meeting of the 
Corporation shall be circulated to all the members of the 
Corporation and shall at all reasonable times be available at the 
Corporation Office for inspection without charge by any 
member or person on payment of a fee prescribed by 
regulation. 

65. (1) The Corporation Secretary shall forward to the 
Government a copy of the minutes of the proceedings of each 
meeting of the Corporation within three days from the date of 
the meeting. 

(2) The Government may also in any case ask for a copy of 
any paper or all the papers which were laid before the 
Corporation or any Committee thereof and the Corporation 
Secretary shall forward to the Government, a copy of such 
paper or papers. 

66. (1) The Corporation shall have powers to act 
notwithstanding any vacancy in the membership thereof and no 
act done or the proceedings taken under this Act, shall be 
questioned on the ground merely of- 

(a) the seat of any member remaining unfilled for any 
cause whatsoever; 

(b) the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in the 
constitution of the Corporation, or in any committee 
thereof; 


(c) any member having voted or taken part in any 
proceedings in contravention of section 60; 

(d) any defect or irregularity not affecting the merits of 
the case. 

(2) every meeting of the Corporation or of any committee 
thereof, the minutes of proceedings which have been duly 
drawn up and signed shall be deemed to have been duly 
convened and to be free form all defects and irregularities. 

CHAPTER- VI 

CORPORATION OFFICERS AND OTHER 
CORPORATION EMPLOYEES 

Posts in Corporation 67. (1) The Government may, by notification, constitute, in 

and appointments the prescribed manner, all or any of the categories of 
thereto. . . 

Corporation services: 

Provided that the Government shall appoint a Corporation 
Secretary, for perfonning the duties assigned to him under this 
Act. 

(2) The Government may make rules for regulating the 
recruitment and the conditions of service of members of the 
Corporation services referred to in sub-section (1), and the 
classification of such services and for the duties and functions 
of the members of such services. 

(3) The salary, allowances, gratutity, pension and other 
payments required to be made to the members of the 
Corporation services in accordance with the conditions of their 
service shall be charged from the Corporation Fund in the 
prescribed manner. 

1 [(4) Creation of posts in a Corporation service shall be made 
by the Government and appointment of members thereto shall 
be made as may be prescribed after taking into consideration 
the requirements of the corporation and its financial capacity 
but no such member shall be deemed to have been appointed to 
any civil service or post under the State]. 

(5) For carrying out the purposes of this Act, the Corporation 
shall take over the entire staff of Faridabad Complex 
Administration on the existing terms of service and integrate 
them in the Corporation Services. 

(6) The Corporation may recruit additional staff where 
necessary subject to the condition as may be laid down by the 
Government. 

(7) In making appointment to any post referred to in this 
section, the appointing authority shall follow the instructions 
issued by the Government form time to time in relation to 
reservation of appointments or post for Scheduled Castes, 
Backward Classes and any other category of persons. 


1 Substituted by Haryana Act 18 of 1999. 


Officers and other 
employees not to 
undertake any 
extraneous work. 
Officers and other 
employees not to be 
interested in any 
contract etc. with 
Corporation. 


Punishment of 
Corporation Officers 
and other employees. 


68. No Corporation Officer or other Corporation employees 
shall undertake any work unconnected with duties under this 
Act except with the permission of the Corporation. 

69. (1) A person shall be disqualified for being appointed as 
a Corporation Officer or employee if he has, directly or 
indirectly, by himself or by a partner or any other person, any 
share or interest in any contract made with, or any work being 
done for the Corporation, other than as such officers or 
employee. 

(2) If any such officer or other employee acquires, directly or 
indirectly by him-self or by a partner or any other person, any 
share or interest in any such contract or works as is referred to 
in sub-section (1), he shall unless the authority appointing him 
in any particular case otherwise decides, be liable to be 
removed from his office by an order of such authority: 

Provided that before an order of removal is made such 
officer or other employee shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be 
taken in regard to him. 

70. (1) Every Corporation Officer or other Corporation 
employees, other than those referred to in sub-section (1) of 
section 67, shall be liable to have his increments or promotion 
withheld or to be censured, reduced in rank, compulsorily 
retired, removed or dismissed for breach of any departmental 
regulations or of discipline or for carelessness, unfitness, 
negligence of duty or other misconduct by such authority as 
may be prescribed by regulations: 

Provided that no such officer or other employee as aforesaid 
shall be reduced in rank, compulsorily retired, removed or 
dismissed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was 
appointed. 

(2) No such officer or other employee shall be punished 
under sub-section (1) unless he has been given a reasonable 
opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be 
taken against him; 

Provided that the sub-section shall not apply- 

(a) where an officer or other employee is removed or 
dismissed on the ground of conduct which has led to 
his conviction on a criminal charge; or 

(b) where the authority empowered to remove or dismiss 
such officer or other employee is satisfied that for 
some reason to be recorded by that authority, it is not 
reasonably practicable to give that person an 
opportunity of showing cause. 

(3) If any question arises whether it is reasonably practicable 
to give to any officer or other employee an opportunity of 


showing cause under sub-section (2), the decision thereon of 
the authority empowered to remove or dismiss such officer or 
other employee shall be final. 

(4) an officer or other employee upon whom a punishment 
has been inflicted under this section may appeal to such officer 
or authority as may be prescribed by regulations. 

Power of Corporation 71. (1) The Corporation may make regulations to provide 

to make regulations. for tenure of office, salaries and allowances, provident fund, 
pension, gratuity, leave of absence, punishment and other 
conditions of service of officers and other employees appointed 
under this sub section shall not apply:- 

(a) where an officer or other employee is removed or 
dismissed on the ground of conduct which has led to 
his conviction on a criminal charge; or 

(b) where the authority empowered to remove or 
dismiss such officer or other employee is satisfied 
that for some reason to be recorded by that 
authority, it is not reasonably practicable to give 
that person an opportunity of showing cause, 

CHAPTER- VII 

REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE 

Constitution of 72. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act- 

Corporation Fund. (a) all funds which immediately before the declaration 

and constitution of the Corporation under sections 3 
and 4 of this Act vested in the Municipal area of the 
Faridabad Complex or any part thereof or any 
municipality including area comprising rural area or 
a part thereof if any: 

(b) all money received by or on behalf of the 
Corporation under the provision of this Act or of 
any law for the time being in force or under any 
contract; 

(c) all proceeds of the disposal of property by, or on 
behalf of the Corporation; 

(d) all proceeds of the disposal of property by, or on 
behalf of the Corporation; 

(e) all rents accruing from any property of the 
Corporation; 

(f) all moneys raised by any tax, rate or cess levied for 
the purpose of this Act; 

(g) all moneys received by or on behalf of the 
Corporation from the Government or any individual 
or association of individuals by way of grant or gift 
or deposit; 

(h) all interest and profits arising from any investment 
of, or from any transactions in connection with, any 


Corporation Fund to 
be kept in treasury or 
in a nationalised 
bank. 


Operation of account 
with banks. 


Payment not to be 
made unless covered 
by a Budget grant. 


money belonging to the Corporation including loans 
and advances under this Act; 

(i) all moneys received by or on behalf of the 
Corporation from any other source whatsoever, 

shall form one fund to be called the Corporation Fund. 

(2) The Corporation Fund shall be held by the Corporation in 
trust for the purposes of this Act subject to the provisions 
herein contained 

(3) The ownership of all properties, movable or immovable 
and assets belonging to the Faridabad Complex Administration 
shall vest in the Corporation. 

(4) All liabilities of Faridabad Complex Administration shall 
be the liabilities of the Corporation. 

(5) All actions taken, rights acquired or liabilities incurred by 
the Faridabad Complex Administration shall be deemed to have 
been taken, acquired or incurred by the Corporation under this 
Act. 

73. All moneys payable to the credit of the Corporation 
Fund shall be received by the Commissioner and shall be 
forthwith paid into any nationalised bank, or in a treasury of 
the Government or any other bank approved by the 
Government in this behalf. 

74. Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no payment shall 
be made by any bank referred to in section 73 out of the 
Corporation Fund except on a cheque signed by both,- 

(a) Officer incharge of the accounts; and 

(b) The Commissioner or an officer subordinate to him 
authorised by him in this behalf. 

75. No payment of any sum out of the Corporation Fund 
shall be made unless the expenditure of the same is covered by 
a current budget grant and sufficient balance of such budget 
grant is still available notwithstanding any reduction or transfer 
thereof which may have been made under the provisions of this 
Act: 

Provided that this section shall not apply to payments 
made in the following classes of cases, namely:- 

(a) repayment of money, belonging to contractors or 
other persons and held in deposit and of moneys 
collected or credited to the Corporation Fund by 
mistake; 

(b) refund of taxes and other moneys which are 
authorised under this Act; 

(c) sum payable in any of the following circumstances- 

i) under orders of the Government on failure of 
the Corporation to take any action as 
required by the Government; or 


Duty of persons 
signing cheque. 


Procedure when 
money not covered by 
a budget grant is 
expended. 


Application of 
Corporation Fund. 


ii) under any other enactment for the time being 
in force; or 

iii) under the decree or order of a civil or 
criminal court passed against the 
Corporation; or 

iv) under a compromise of any claim, suit or 
other legal proceedings; or 

v) on account of cost incurred in taking 
immediate action by the Corporation or the 
Commissioner to avert a sudden threat of 
danger to the property of the Corporation or 
to human life; 

(d) temporary payment for works urgently required by 
the Government in the public interest; 

(e) sums payable as compensation under this Act or 
under any rules, regulations or bye-laws made there 
under; 

(f) expenses incurred by the Corporation on special 
measures taken on the outbreak of dangerous 
diseases; 

(g) amount payable to Government by way of audit fee. 

76. Before any person signs a cheque in accordance with 
section 74 or signs any bill for payment of any amount from 
the treasury, he shall satisfy himself that the sum which is 
specified for payment in the bill or for which the cheque is 
drawn, as the case may be, is either- 

(a) required for a purpose or work specifically sanctioned 
by the proper authority and covered by a current 
budget grant; or 

(b) required for any payment referred to, or specified in 
section 75. 

77. Whenever any sum is expended under clause (c) , (e) or 
(f) of the proviso to section 75, the Commissioner shall 
forthwith communicate the circumstances to the Corporation to 
take such action under the provisions of this Act, as shall, in 
the circumstances, appear possible and expedient for covering 
the amount of the additional expenditure. 

78. (1) The money from time to time credited to Corporation 
Fund, shall be applied in payment of all sums, charges and 
costs necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Act and 
of the rules, regulations and bye-laws made there under or of 
which payment is duly directed, sanctioned or required by or 
under any of the provisions of this Act. 

(2) The money referred to in sub-section (1) shall 
likewise be applied in payment of all sums payable out of the 
Corporation Fund under any other enactment for the time being 


Payments from 
Corporation Fund for 
works urgently 
required for public 
service. 


Investment of surplus 
money. 


Constitution of 
special funds. 


Finance Commission. 


in force. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the 
moneys referred to in sub-section (1) may also be applied in 
payment of all sums, charges and costs on all acts and things 
which are likely to promote the safety, health, welfare, or 
convenience of the inhabitants, or expenditure whereof may be 
declared by the Corporation, with the sanction of the 
Government to be an appropriate charge on the Corporation 
Fund. 

79. On the written requisition of the Secretary, Local 
Government Department, Haryana, the Commissioner may at 
any time undertake the execution of any work certified by such 
Secretary to be urgently required in public interest, and for this 
purposes may temporarily make payments from the 
Corporation Fund so far as the same can be met without un 
duty interfering with the regular work of the Corporation. 

80. Surplus moneys standing at the credit of Corporation 
Fund which cannot immediately or at an early date be applied 
for the purposes specified in section 78, shall be invested in the 
prescribed manner. 

81. (1) The Corporation shall constitute such special fund or 
funds as may be prescribed by regulations and such other funds 
necessary for the purpose of this Act as may be so prescribed. 

(2) The constitution and disposal of such funds shall be 
effected in the manner laid down by regulations. 

82. (1) The Finance Commission constituted by the State 
Government under article 243-1 of the Constitution of India 
shall review the financial position of the Corporation and make 
recommendations to the Government as to- 

(a) the principles which should govern- 

i) the distribution between the State and the 
Corporation of the net proceeds of the taxes, 
duties, tolls and less livable by the State, which 
may be divided between them and the allocation 
between the Corporation at all levels of their 
respective shares of such proceeds; 

ii) the determination of the taxes, duties, tolls and 
fees which may be assigned to, or appropriated 
by the Corporation; 

iii) the grants-in-aid to the Corporation from the 
Consolidated Fund of the State; 

(b) the measures needed to improve the financial position 
of the Corporation; 

(c) any other matter referred to the Finance Commission 
by the Government in the interest of sound finances of 
the Corporation. 


Budget estimates. 


Power of Corporation 
to alter Budget 
estimates. 


(2) The Government shall cause every recommendation 
made by the Finance Commission under this section together 
with an explanatory memorandum as to the action taken 
thereon, to be laid before the Legislature of the State. 

83. (1) The Corporation shall not later than the first week of 
February of every year, adopt for the ensuing year a budget 
estimate which shall be an estimate of the income and 
expenditure of the Corporation to be received and incurred on 
account of the Corporation. 

(2) The budget estimate adopted under sub-section (1) 
shall be submitted to the Government not later than the last 
week of February preceding the year to which the budget 
estimate relates. 

(3) The budget estimate received by the Government 
under sub-section (2), shall be returned to the Corporation 
before the 31st day of March after approval without any 
modification or with such modification as the Government may 
deem fit. 

(4) The budget estimate shall be prepared in such manner 
and shall provide for all such matters as may be prescribed. 

84. (1) On the recommendation of the Commissioner the 
Corporation may from time to time during the year- 

i) increase the amount of any budget grant under 
any head; 

ii) make an additional budget grant for the 
purpose of meeting nay special or unforeseen 
requirement arising during the said year; 

iii) transfer the amount or portion of the amount 
of the budget grant under any head to the 
account of budget grant under any other head; 
or 

iv) reduce the amount of the budget grant under 
any head: 

Provided that due regard shall be had to all the requirements 
of this Act and in making nay increase or any additional budget 
grant the estimated cash balance at the close of the year shall 
not be reduced below the sum of one lakh rupees or such higher 
sum as the Corporation may determine in respect of each 
budget estimate. 

(2) Every increase in a budget grant and every additional 
budget grant made in any year under sub-section (1) shall be 
made with the prior approval of the Government and after such 
approval shall be deemed to be included in the budget estimate 
finally adopted for that year. 

(3) The Commissioner may from time to time during the 


Power of Corporation 
to readjust income 
and expenditure 
during the year. 


Provisions as to 
unexpended and 
budget grant. 


Taxes etc. to be 
imposed by 
Corporation under 
this Act and 
arrangement of 
certain taxes collected 
by Government 


year- 

(a) reduce the amount of budget grant; or 

(b) sanction the transfer of any amount within a budget 
grant: 

Provided that every reduction if it exceeds fifty thousand 
rupees shall be reported forthwith by the Commissioner to the 
Corporation and the Commissioner shall give effect to any 
order that may be passed by the Corporation in relation thereto. 

(4) The Commissioner may, from time to time, during the 
year, sanction the transfer of any amount not exceeding fifty 
thousand rupees within a minor head if such transfer does not 
involve a recurring liability. 

85. (1) If any time during the year it appears to the 
Corporation that, notwithstanding any reduction of budget 
grant that has been made under section 85, the income of the 
Corporation Fund during the same year will not suffice to meet 
the expenditure sanctioned in the budget estimate of that year 
and to leave at the close of the year, the cash balance specified 
or detennined under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 
84, then it shall be incumbent on the Corporation to sanction 
forthwith any measures which it may consider necessary for 
adjusting that year’s income to the expenditure. 

(2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), the Corporation 
may either reduce the sanctioned expenditure of the year so far 
as it may be possible so to do with regard to all the requirement 
s of this Act. 

86. If the whole or any part of any budget grant included in 
the budget estimates for a year remains unexpended at the close 
of that year, and the amount thereof has not been taken into 
account in the opening balance entered in the budget estimates 
of any of the next two following year, the Commissioner may 
sanction the expenditure of such budget grant or the 
unexpended portion thereof during the next two following 
years for the completion of the purpose or object for which the 
budget grant was originally made and not for any other purpose 
or object. 

CHAPTER- VIII 
TAXES AND FEES 

87. (1) The Corporation shall, for the purposes of this Act, 
levy the following taxes- 

'[ “(a) a tax payable by the owner on buildings and lands 
which shall not be less than two and a half per centum and 
more than fifteen per centum, as the State Government may, by 
notification direct, of the annual value of such buildings and 
lands,”;] 

(b) 2[ ******** ] such other tax, at such rates as the 


Government may, by notification, in each case direct; 

(c) a duty on the transfer of immovable properties situated 
within the limits of the municipal area in addition to the 
duty imposed under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, as in 
force for the time being in the State of Haryana, on every 
instrument of the description specified below and at such 
rate, as the Government may, by notification, direct, 
which shall not be less than one per centum and more 
than three per centum on the amount specified below 
against such instruments:- 

i) Sale of the amount or value of the 

immovable consideration for the sale as set forth in 
property the instrument. 

ii) Exchange the value of the property or the greater 

of value as set fourth in the instrument, 

immovable 

property 

iii) Gift of The value of the property as set forth in 

immovable the instrument. 

property 

iv) Mortgage The amount secured by the mortgage as 

with set forth in the instrument, 

possession 

of 

immovable 

property 

v) Lease in The amount equal to one-sixth of the 

perpetuity whole amount or value of the rent 

of which would be paid or delivered in 

immovable respect of the first fifty years of the 
property lease, as set forth in the instrument. 

The said duty shall be collected by the Registrar or Sub- 
Registrar in the shape of non-judicial stamp paper at the time 
of registration of the document and intimation thereof shall 
be sent to the Corporation immediately. The amount of the 
duty so collected shall be paid to the Corporation. 

(2) Subject to the prior approval of the Government, the 
Corporation may for the purposes of this Act, in addition to 
the taxes specified in sub-section (1) levy- 
(a) a tax on profession, trades, callings and employments; 

" [“(b) a tax on vehicles, plying for hire or kept registered under 
the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Act 59 of 1988), within 
the Corporation, and animals;] 


Fees that may be 
charged by the 
Corporation. 


(c) a development tax on the increase in urban land values 
caused by the execution of any development or 
improvement work; 

(d) show tax; 

(e) tax on consumption of energy at a rate not exceeding 5 
paise for every unit of electricity consumed by any 
person within the Municipal area; 

4[“(ee) a tax on driving licenses issued under the Motor 

Vehicles Act, 1988 (Act 59 of 1988), within the Corporation 

area;”.] 

(f) any other tax that may be imposed under the provisions 
of the Haryana Municipal Act, 1973: 

Provided that no tax shall be imposed under this sub-section 
unless an opportunity has been given in the prescribed manner 
to the residents of the Municipal area to file objections and the 
objections, if any, thus received have been considered. 

(3) The taxes as specified in sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) 
shall be levied at such rates as may, from time to time, be 
specified by the Government by notification and shall be 
assessed and collected in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act and the bye-laws made there under. 

(4) The Government may, by special or general order, direct 
the Corporation to impose any tax falling under sub-section (1) 
or sub-section (2) not already imposed, within such period as 
may be specified and the Corporation shall there upon act 
accordingly. 

(5) If the Corporation fails to carry out any order passed under 
sub-section (4), the Government may, by a suitable order 
notified in the Official Gazette, impose the tax and the order so 
passed shall operate as if the tax had been duly imposed by the 
Corporation under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) as the case 
may be. 


88. (1) Subject to the prior approval of the Government, the 
Corporation may in the manner prescribed levy a fee with 
regard to the following:- 

i) a fee on advertisements other than advertisements 
in the newspapers; 

ii) a fee on building applications; 

iii) development fee for providing and maintaining 
civic amenities in certain areas; 

iv) a fee with regard to lighting; 

v) a fee with regard to a scavenging; 

vi) a fee in the nature of costs for providing internal 
services in a building scheme or town planning 


Components and rates 
of taxes of lands and 
buildings. 


Premises in respect of 
which water tax or 
charges and fire tax 
are to be levied. 


schemes; 

vii)any other fee as deemed fit by the corporation for 
services rendered. 

(2) The rates at which and the conditions subject to which the 
fees as laid down in sub-section (1), may be levied by the 
corporation, would be decided by the Government. 

89. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, taxes on 
lands and buildings in the Municipal area shall consist of the 
following, namely :- 

(a) a water tax at such percentage of the 5 [annual] value of 
lands and buildings as the Government may deem 
reasonable for providing water supply in the Municipal 
area or in lieu thereof water charges of such rate as 
may be decided by the Government from time to time; 

(b) a fire tax as such percentage of the '[annual value] of 
lands and buildings as the Government may deem 
reasonable for the expense necessary for the conduct 
and management of the fire service and for the 
protection of life and property in the case of fire. 

(c) A general tax not more than fifteen percent of the 
'[annual value] of lands and buildings within the 
Municipal areas: 

Provided that the general tax may be levied on a graduated 
scale, if the Government so detennines: 

Provided further that the general tax would not be livable on 
the lands and buildings within the Lai Dora of villages forming 
part of Municipal area provided they are self occupied. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), 
the Government may exempt the certain classes or categories of 
persons or lands and buildings from the payment of the general 
tax. 

90. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the water tax 
shall be levied only in respect of lands and buildings:- 

(a) to which a water supply is furnished from or which 
are connected by means of pipes with municipal 
water works; or 

(b) which are situated in any portion of the Municipal 
area in which the Commissioner has given public 
notice that sufficient water is available from 
municipal water works for a reasonable supply to all 
the lands and buildings in the said portion. 

(2) The fire tax shall be levied in respect of all lands and 
buildings in the Municipal area in respect of which the general 
tax is levied or would have been levied but for the exemption 
given by or under the provisions of this Act. 


Determination of 
annual value of lands 
and buildings 
assessable to taxes. 
Taxation of union 
properties. 


Incidence of tax on 
lands and buildings. 


Apportionment of 
liability of taxes on 
buildings and lands 
when premises 
assessed are let or 
sub -let. 


92. Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing 
provisions of this Chapter, lands and buildings being properties 
of the Union shall be exempted from the taxes on lands and 
buildings specified in section 89: 

Provided that nothing in this section shall prevent the 
Corporation from levying any of the said taxes on such lands 
and buildings to which immediately before the 26th January, 
1950, they were liable, or treated as liable, so long as that tax 
continues to be levied by the Corporation on other lands and 
buildings: 

Provided further that nothing in this section, shall prevent 
the Corporation for charging the service charges in lieu of 
services rendered as per Government of India instructions. 

7[ “93 (1) If any lands has been let to a tenant and such 
tenant has erected buildings upon the land, the tax on lands and 
buildings payable under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 
87 in respect of that lands and the building erected thereon, 
shall be primarily payable by the tenant. In case the tenant 
vacates the said building or land, it shall be the liability of the 
owner to pay the said tax. 

Explanation.- The term ‘tenant’ includes any person 
deriving title to the land or building erected upon such land 
from the tenant whether by operation of law or by transfer inter 
vivos. 

(2) The assessment, levy and payment of the tax on 
buildings and lands shall not in any way confer any right, title 
or interest in the property upon either the owner or the occupier 
and shall not be a proof of the fact that the building is an 
authorised one and further that any building or part thereof 
which is erected in contravention of the existing building bye- 
laws or town planning regulations/scheme shall not get 
regularized by virtue of being assessed to tax on buildings and 
lands. 

94. If any building or land assessed to tax specified in clause 
(a) of sub-section (1) of section 87 is let and its annual value 
exceeds the amount of rent payable in respect thereof then the 
tenant shall be liable to pay the difference between the amount 
of the said tax levied upon the owner and the amount which 
would have been levied upon the owner if the said tax were 
calculated on the amount of rent payable to him. In case the 
tenant vacates the said building or land then it shall be the 
liability of the owner to pay the said tax: 


Recovery of taxes on 
lands and buildings 
from occupiers. 


Taxes on lands and 
buildings a first 
charge on premises 
on which they are 
assessed. 


Assessment list. 


Provided that the tenancy agreements between the relatives 
inter se shall not be covered under this section.”] 

95. (1) On the failure to recover any sum due on account of 
taxes specified in section 89 in respect of any land or building 
from the person primarily liable therefore under section 93, the 
Commissioner shall in the prescribed manner recover from 
every occupier of such land or building by attachment of the 
rent payable by such occupier, a portion of the total sum due 
which bears, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to that 
sum as the rent annually payable by such occupier bears to the 
total amount of rent annually payable in respect of the whole of 
the land or building. 

(2) An occupier from whom any sum is recovered under 
sub-section (1) shall be entitled to be reimbursed by the person 
primarily liable for the payment and may in addition to having 
recourse to other remedies that may be open to him, deduct the 
amount to be recovered from the amount of any rent from time 
to time becoming due from him to such person. 

96. Taxes due under this Act in respect of any land or 
building shall subject to the prior payment of the land revenue, 
if any due to the Government, be a first charge thereon. 

Explanation. -The tenn ‘taxes’ in this section shall be 
deemed to include the costs of recovery thereof and the 
penalty, if any, payable as specified in the bye-laws. 

97. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the 
Corporation shall cause an assessment list of all lands and 
buildings in the Municipal area to be prepared in such form and 
manner and containing, such particulars with respect to each 
land and building as may be prescribed by bye-laws. 

(2) When the assessment list has been prepared, the 
Commissioner shall give public notice thereof and of the place 
where the list or a copy thereof may be inspected, included in 
the list and any authorised agent of such person, shall be at 
liberty to inspect the list and to take extract there from free of 
charge. 

(3) The Commissioner shall, at the same time, give public 
notice of date, not less than one month there after, when he will 

o 

proceed to consider the [annual] values of lands and buildings, 
entered in the assessment list and in all cases in which any land 
or buildings is for the first time assessed (or the ’[annual ] 
value of any land or building is increased), he shall also give 
written notice thereof to the owner or to any lessee or occupier 
of the land or building. 

(4) Any objection to a ’[annual] value or any other matter as 
entered in the assessment list, shall be made in writing, to the 
Commissioner before the date fixed in the notice and shall state 


Evidentiary value of 
assessment list. 


Amendment of 
assessment list. 


in what respect the annual value or other matter is disputed, 
and all objections so made shall be recorded in a register to be 
kept for the purpose. 

(5) The objection shall be inquired into and investigated and 
the persons making them shall be allowed an opportunity of 
being heard either in person or by authorised agent, by a 
Committee consisting of two members elected by the 
Corporation for that purpose and the Commissioner or an 
officer of the Corporation authorised by him in this behalf. 

(6) When all objections have been disposed of, and the 
revision of the '[ annual] value has been completed, the 
assessment list shall be authenticated by the signature of the 
Commissioner, or as the case may be, the Officer authorised by 
him in this behalf, who shall certify that except in the cases, if 
any, in which amendments have been made as shown therein, 
no valid objection has been made to the annual value or any 
other matters entered in the said list. 

(7) The assessment list so authenticated shall be deposited in 
the office of the Corporation and shall be open for inspection 
free of charge during office hours to all owners, lessees and 
occupiers of lands and buildings comprised therein or the 
authorised agents of such persons, and a public notice that it is 
so open shall forthwith be published. 

98. Subject to such alterations as may thereafter be made in 
the assessment list under section 99 and to the result of any 
appeal made under the provision of this Act, the entries in the 
assessment list authenticated and deposited as provided in 
section 97 shall be accepted as conclusive evidence for the 
purpose of assessing any tax levied under this Act, of the 
1 [annual] value of all lands and buildings to which such entries 
respectively relate. 

99. (1) The Commissioner may, at any time, amend the 
assessment list- 

(a) by inserting therein the name of any person whose 
name ought to be inserted; or 

(b) by inserting therein any land or building previously 
omitted; 

(c) by striking out of the name of any person not liable for 
the payment of taxes on lands and buildings; or 

(d) by increasing or reducing for adequate reasons the 
amount of any '[annual] value and of the assessment 
thereupon; or 

(e) by making or canceling any entry exempting any land 
or building from liability to any tax; or 

(f) by altering the assessment on the land or building 
which has been erroneously valued or assessed through 


Preparation of new 
assessment list. 


Notice of transfers. 


fraud, mistake or accident; or 

(g) by inserting or altering an entry in respect of any 
erected, re-erected, altered or added to, after the 
preparation of the assessment list: 

Provided that no person shall by reason of any such amendment 
become liable to pay any tax or increase of tax in respect of any 
period prior to the commencement of the year in which the 
notice under sub-section(2) is given. 

(2) Before making any amendment under sub-section (1) the 
Commissioner shall give to any person affected by the 
amendment, notice of not less than one month that the proposes 
to make the amendment and consider any objection which may 
be made by such person. 

9 [100. New list need not be prepared every year. - It shall 
be in the discretion of the Corporation to prepare for the whole 
or any part of the Corporation area a new assessment list every 
year or to adopt the valuation and assessment contained in the 
list for any year, with such alterations as may, in particular 
cases, be deemed necessary, by giving notice of the revised 
valuation and assessment to the affected persons if such 
alterations in the valuation and assessment is caused for the 
reasons other than change in regard to Collector’s rate, cost of 
construction as determined by the Government and 
depreciation: 

Provided that the valuation and assessment contained in the 
list for any year shall not be adopted for a period exceeding 
five years.” 

101. (1) Whenever the title of any person primarily liable for 
the payment of taxes specified in section 89 on any land and 
buildings is transferred the persons whose title is transferred 
and the person to whom the same is transferred shall within 
three months after execution of the instrument of transfer or 
after its registration, if it is registered, or after the transfer is 
effected, if no instrument is executed, give notice of such 
transfer in writing to the Commissioner. 

(2) In the event of the death of any person primarily liable as 
aforesaid, the person on whom the title of the deceased 
devolves, shall give notice of such devolution to the 
Commissioner within six months from the date of the death of 
the decreased. 

(3) The notice to be given under this section shall be in such 
form as may be detennined by bye-laws made under this Act, 
and the transferee or the other person on whom the title 
devolves shall, it so required, be bound to produce before the 
Commissioner any documents, evidencing the transfer or 
devolution. 


Notice of erection of 
building etc. 


Notice of demolition 
or removal of 
building. 


Power of 

Commissioner to call 
for information. 


(4) Every Person who makes a transfer as aforesaid without 
giving such notice to the Commissioner shall, in addition to 
any penalty to which he may be subjected to under the 
provisions of this Act, continue to be liable for the payment of 
all taxes specified in section 89 from time to time payable in 
respect of the land or building transferred until he given such 
notice or until the transfer has been recorded in the 
Commissioner’s book, but nothing in this section shall be held 
to affect the liability of the transferee for the payment of the 
said taxes. 

(5) The Commissioners shall record every transfer or 
devolution of title notified to him under this section in his 
books and in the assessment list. 

(6) On a written request by the Commissioner, the Registrar 
or Sub-Registrar, having jurisdiction in the Municipal area, 
appointed under the Registration Act, 1908, shall furnish such 
particulars regarding the registration of instruments of transfer 
of immovable properties in the Municipal area, as the 
Commissioner may from time to time require. 

(7) Such information shall be furnished as soon as may be 
after the registration of an instrument of transfer is effected, or 
if the Commissioner so requests, by periodical returns at such 
intervals as the Commissioner may fix. 

102. When any new building is erected or when any building 
is re-build or enlarged or when any building which has been 
vacant is re-occupied, the person primarily liable for the taxes 
specified in section 89 assessed on the building, shall give 
notice thereof in writing to the Commissioner within fifteen 
days from the date of its completion or occupation, whichever 
first occurs or, as the case may be, from the date of its 
enlargement or re-occupation; and the said taxes shall be 
assessable on the building from the said date. 

103. (1) When any building or any portion of a building, 
which is liable to the payment of taxes specified in section 89 
is demolished or removed, otherwise than by order of the 
Commissioner, the person primarily liable for the payment of 
the said taxes, shall give notice thereof in writing to the 
Commissioner. 

(2) Until notice is given, by person as mentioned under sub- 
section (1), he shall continue to be liable to the payment of 
such taxes as he would have been liable to pay in respect of 
such building if the same or any portion thereof had not been 
demolished or removed. 

104. (1) To enable the Commissioner to determined the 
10 [annual] value of any land or building and the person 
primarily liable for the payment of any taxes specified in 


Premises owned by or 
let to, two or more 
persons in severalty 
to be ordinarily 
accessed as one 
property. 


Assessment in case of 
amalgamation of 
premises. 


Power of 
Commissioner to 


section 89 leviable in respect thereof, the Commissioner may 
require the owner or occupier of such land or building, or of 
any portion thereof to furnish him within such reasonable 
period as the Commissioner fixes in this behalf, with 
infonnation by such owner or occupier: - 

(a) as to the name and place of residence of the owner or 
occupier or of both the owner and occupier of such 
land or building; 

(b) as to the measurements of dimensions of such land or 
building or any portion thereof and the rent, if any, 
obtained for such land or building or any portion 
thereof; and 

(c) as to the actual cost or other specified details connected 
with the determination of the value of such land or 
building. 

(2) Every owner or occupier on whom any such requisition is 
made shall be bound to comply with the same and to give true 
infonnation to the best of his knowledge or belief. 

(3) Whoever omits to comply with any such requisition or 
fails to give true infonnation to the best of his knowledge or 
belief shall, in addition to any penalty to which he may be 
liable, be precluded from objecting to any assessment made by 
the Commissioner in respect of such land or building of which 
he is the owner or occupier. 

105. Notwithstanding that any land or building is owned by, 
or let to, two or more persons in severalty, the Commissioner 
shall for the purpose of assessing such land or building to taxes 
specified in section 89 treat the whole of it as one property: 

Provided that the Commissioner may, in respect of any land 
or building which was originally treated as one property but 
which subsequently passes on by transfer, succession or in any 
other manner to two or more persons who divide the same into 
several parts and occupy them in severalty, treat, subject to any 
bye-law made in this behalf each such several part, or two or 
more of such several parts together, as a separate property and 
assess such part or parts to the said taxes accordingly. 

106. If any land or building, bearing two or more municipal 
numbers, or portions thereof be amalgamated into one or more 
new premises, the Commissioner shall on such amalgamation 
assign to them one or more numbers and assess them to taxes 
specified in section 89 accordingly: 

Provided that the total assessment on amalgamation shall not 
be greater than the sum of the previous assessments of the 
several premises except when there is any re-valuation of any 
of the said premises. 

107. The Commissioner may in his discretion assess any out 

hnnsps annurtpnant tn a hiiilrlinu nr anv nnrtinn nf a land nr 


assess separately out 
houses and portion of 
buildings. 

Power of 
Commissioner to 
employ valuers. 


Levy of octroi or tax 
levied in lieu of 
octroi. 


Power to examine 
articles liable to 
octroi. 

Power to search 
where octroi leviable. 
Penalty for evasion of 
octroi. 

Recovery of 12[toll] or 
taxes. 


Tax on vehicles and 
animals. 


houses appurtenant to a building, or any portion of a land or 
building separately from such building or, as the case may be, 
from the rest of such land or building. 

108. (1) The Commissioner may, if he thinks fit, employ one 
or more competent persons to give advice or assistance in 
connection with the valuation of any land or building, and any 
person so employed shall have power, at all reasonable times 
and after giving due notice, and on production, if so required, 
of authorisation in writing in that behalf from the 
Commissioner, to enter on, survey and value any land or 
building which the Commissioner may direct him to survey and 
value. 

(2) No person shall willfully delay or obstruct any such 
person in the exercise of any of his powers under this section. 

109. Except as herein after provided, the Corporation shall 
levy octroi or tax in lieu thereof, on articles and animals, 
imported into the Municipal area, as such rates as may be 
specified by the Government from time to time. 

The provisions of this section and sections 110, 111, 112 and 
113, would also be applicable to any tax which is levied in lieu 
of octroi. 

110. n[* * * ************ *] 

111. '[*** ************ *j 

113. "[(1) In case of non payment of tax or of any toll on 
demand, the officer empowered to collect the same or any other 
officer duly authorised by the Government or the Corporaton in 
this behalf, may seize any article on which the tax is chargeable 
or any vehicle or animal on which the toll is chargeable, or any 
part of its burden of sufficient value to satisfy the demand].” 

(2) The Corporation after the lapse of five days from the 
seizure and after the issue of a proclamation fixing the time and 
place of sale may cause any property so seized, or so much 
thereof, as may be necessary to be sold by auction to satisfy the 
demand with the expenses occasioned by the seizure, custody 
and sale thereof, unless the demand and expenses are in the 
meantime paid: 

Provided that, by order of the Commissioner articles of a 
perishable nature which cannot be kept for five days without 
serious risk of damage may be sold after the lapse of such 
shorter time as he may, having regards to the nature of the 
articles think proper. 

114. (1) A tax under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 
87 shall be levied at rates specified, from time to time by the 


Tax on whom 
leviable. 


Exemption from taxes 
on vehicle and 
animals. 


Levy of development 
tax. 


Amount of 
development tax. 


Payment of 
development tax. 


Government in this behalf on- 

(a) vehicles, other than motor vehicles, and other 
conveyances plying for hire and kept within the 
Municipal area; 

(b) animals used for riding, driving, draught or load when 
kept within the Municipal area. 

(2) A vehicle or animal kept outside the limits of the 

Municipal ara but regularly used within such limits shall be 

deemed to be kept for use in the Municipal area. 

115. The tax on vehicles or animals shall be leviable upon 
the owner of, or the persons having possession or control of, 
such vehicles or animals in respect of which the tax is livable: 

Provided that in the case of an animal generally used or 
employed in drawing any vehicle, the tax in respect of such 
animal, shall be leviable upon the owner of, or the persons 
having possession or control of, such vehicles, whether or not 
such animal is owned by such owner or person. 

116. (1) The tax under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 
114 shall not be leviable in respect of- 

(a) vehicles belonging to the Corporation, Government 
or the Union of India; 

(b) vehicles used exclusively for the conveyance free of 
charge of the injured, the sick or the dead; 

(c) vehicles kept by bona fide dealers in vehicles merely 
for sale and not for use. 

(2) The tax under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 114 
shall not be leviable in respect of animals belonging to the 
Corporation, Government or the Government of India. 

117. The Corporation shall charge development tax on the 
increase in the value of the land or building comprised in a 
scheme put into operation within the Municipal area under 
Chapter XIX, but not actually required for the execution 
thereof. 

118. (1) The development tax shall be an amount equal to 
one-half of the difference between the market value of the land 
or building on the date specified in the notification issued 
under sub-section (2) and the market value on such land or 
building on or immediately before the date on which the 
scheme after sanction is finally notified under Chapter XIX: 

Provided that for the purpose of calculation under this 
section the land shall be treated as free of all buildings. 

(2) The Government shall, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, declare the date on which scheme shall be deemed to 
have been completed. 

119. Every owner of land or building mentioned in section 

1 1 7 nr nnv nprsnn hnvina an intprp«t thprp in rpsnppt nf thp 


Assessment of 
development tax. 


Fee on 

advertisements. 


117 or any person having an interest there in respect of the 
increase in the value of such land or building, shall in the 
manner hereinafter provided, pay to the Corporation such 
development tax as may be assessed by the Commissioner. 

120. (1) The Commissioner or an officer authorised by him 
in this behalf shall at any time after the publication of the 
notification under sub-section (2) of section 118 assess the 
amount of development tax payable by the persons concerned 
and shall give a notice in writing to such person stating the 
amount of the tax and installments, if any, and the dates on 
which the tax shall be paid together with such other particulars 
as may be necessary. 

(2) Any person on whom a notice of assessment is served 
under sub-section (1) may, within one month from the date of 
service of such notice file an objection against such assessment 
before the Commissioner or an officer authorised by him in this 
behalf: 

Provided that an objection may be entertained after the 
expiry of the period of one month if the Commissioner or an 
officer authorised by him under sub-section (1) is satisfied that 
the failure to file objections was due to any cause beyond the 
control of the objector. 

(3) After an opportunity has been given to the objector of 
being heard, the Commissioner or an officer authorised under 
sub-section (1) shall decided the objection and may then 
confirm, modify or cancel the assessment. 

(4) If the person on whom a notice of assessment is served 
under sub-section (1) fails to file an objection under sub- 
section (2), the order of assessment shall be conclusive and 
shall not be questioned before any Court of Tribunal. 

121. (1) Every person, who erects, exhibits, fixes or retains 
upon or over any land, building, wall, boarding, frame, post or 
structure or upon or in any vehicle any advertisement or, who 
displays any advertisements to public view in any manner 
whatsoever, visible from a public street or public place 
(including any advertisement exhibited by means of 
cinematograph) shall pay for every advertisement which is so 
erected, exhibited, fixed or retained or so displayed to public 
view, a fee calculated at such rates, as may, from time to time, 
be specified by the Government: 

Provided that no fee shall be levied under this section on 
any advertisement which- 

(a) appears in newspapers, relates to a public meeting, or 
to an election to Parliament or Legislative Assembly 
or the Corporation or to candidature in respect of such 
election; or 


Prohibition of 
advertisement without 
written permission of 
Commissioner. 


(b) is exhibited within the window of any building if the 
advertisement relates to the trade, profession or 
business carried in that building; or 

(c) relates to the trade, profession or business carried on 
within the land or building upon or over which such 
advertisement is exhibited or to any sale or letting of 
such land or building or any effects therein or to any 
sale, entertainment or meeting to be held on or upon 
or in the same; or 

(d) relates to the name of the land or building upon or 
over which the advertisement is exhibited, or to the 
name of the owner or occupier of such land or 
building; or 

(e) relates to the business of a railway administration and 
is exhibited within any railway station or upon any 
wall or other property of the railway administration; 
or 

(f) relates to any activity of the Government or Union of 
India or the Corporation. 

(2) The fee on any advertisement leviable under this section 
shall be payable in advance in such number of installments and 
in such manner as may be determined by bye-laws made in this 
behalf. 

Explanation 1. - The word ‘structure’ in this section includes 
any movable board on wheel used as an advertisement or an 
advertisement medium. 

Explanation 2. - The word ‘advertisement’ in relation to fee 
on advertisement under this Act means any word, letter, model, 
sign, placard, notice, device or representation whether 
illuminated or not, in the nature of and employed wholly or in 
part for the purposes of advertisement, announcement or 
direction. 

122. (1) - No. advertisement shall be erected, exhibited, 
fixed or retained or upon or over any land, building, wall 
boarding, frame, post or structure or upon in any vehicle or 
shall be displayed in any manner whatsoever in any place 
within the Municipal area without the written permission of the 
Commissioner granted in accordance with bye-laws made 
under this Act. 

(2) The Commissioner shall not grant such permission, if- 

(a) the advertisement contravenes any bye-law made 
under this Act; or 

(b) the fee, if any, due in respect of the advertisement 
has not been paid. 

(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), in the case of 
an advertisement liable to the advertisement fee, the 


Permission of 
Commissioner to 
become void in 
certain eases. 


Presumption in case 
of contravention. 


Power of 

Commissioner in case 
of contravention. 


Fee on building 
applications. 


Time and manner of 
payment of taxes or 
fees. 


Commissioner shall grant permission for the period to which 
the payment of the fee relates and no fee shall be charged in 
respect of such permission. 

123. The permission granted under section 122 shall become 
void in the following cases, namely:- 

(a) If the advertisement contravenes any bye-law made 
under this Act; 

(b) If any material change is made in the advertisement 
or any part thereof without the previous pennission 
of the Commissioner; 

(c) If the advertisement or any part thereof falls 
otherwise than through accident; 

(d) If any addition or alteration is made to, or in the 
building, walls, boarding, frame, post or structure 
upon or over which the advertisement is erected, 
exhibited, fixed or retained if such addition or 
alteration involves the disturbance of the 
advertisement or any part thereof; and 

(e) If the building, wall, boarding, frame, post or 
structure over which the advertisement is erected, 
exhibited fixed or retained is demolished or 
destroyed. 

124. Where any advertisement has been erected, exhibited, 
fixed or retained upon or over any land, building, wall, 
boarding, frame, post or structure or upon or in any vehicle or 
displayed to public view from a public street or public place in 
contravention of the provisions of this Act or any bye-laws 
made there under, it shall be presumed, unless and until 
contrary is proved, that the contravention has been committed 
by the person or the persons on whose behalf the advertisement 
purports to be the agents of such person or persons. 

125. If any advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or 
retained in contravention of the provisions of section 122, the 
Commissioner may require the owner or occupier of the land, 
building, wall, boarding, frame, post or structure or vehicle 
upon or over or in which the same is erected, exhibited, fixed 
or retained, to take down or remove such advertisement or may 
enter any land, building, property or vehicle and have the 
advertisement dismantled, taken down or removed or spoiled, 
defaced or screened. 

126. Every person who makes an application to the 
Commissioner for the sanction of a building plan shall pay 
along with the application, fee at such rate as may, from time to 
time, be specified by the Government. 

127. Save as otherwise provided in this Act, any tax or fee 
levied under this Act, shall be payable on such dates, in such 


Presentation of bill of 
tax of fee. 


Consequences of 
failure to pay tax or 
fee within thirty days. 


Manner of recovering 
tax or fee. 


number of installments and in such manner as may be 
determined by bye-laws in this behalf: 

Provided that if the tax or fee is not paid within one month 
of the due date, an interest at the rate of one per centum per 
month shall be charged for every calendar month or part 
thereof. 

128. (1) When any tax or fee has become due, the 
Commissioner shall cause to be presented to the person liable 
for the payment thereof, bill for the amount due: 

Provided that no such bill shall be necessary in the case of- 

(a) tax on vehicles and animals; 

(b) show-tax. 

(2) Every such bill which shall be in the prescribed form shall 
for the purposes of this Act be considered a notice of demand 
and shall specify the particulars of he tax or fee and the period 
for which the charge is made. 

(3) If the amount specified in the bill is paid within a period of 
fifteen days from the presentation thereof, a rebate of L’[ten] per 
cent shall be allowed in the amount of tax or fee. 

(4) If the tax on vehicles and animals or the show-tax is not 
paid after it has become due, the Commissioner may cause ot 
be served upon the person liable for the payment of the same a 
notice of demand in the prescribed form. 

(5) For every notice of demand served under sub-section (4) a 
fine of such amount not exceeding fifteen rupees as may be 
detennined by bye-laws made in this behalf shall be payable by 
the person on whom the notice is served and shall be included 
in the costs of recovery. 

129. If the person liable for the payment of any tax or fee 
does not within thirty days from the service of the notice of 
demand under sub-section (2) or subsection (4) of section 128, 
pay the same, the tax or fee together with the costs of recovery 
shall be recoverable in the manner provided hereinafter. 

130. Any sum due on account of tax or fee payable under 
this Act may be recovered, together with costs of recovery, by 
all or any of the following processes, in the manner prescribed- 

i) as arrear of land revenue; 

ii) by distrait and sale of a defaulter’s movable 
property; 

iii) by the attachment and sale of a defaulter’s 
immovable property; 

iv) in the case of Octroi and toll, by the seizure 
and sale of goods and vehicles; 

v) in the case of taxes on lands and buildings by 
the attachment of rent due in respect of the 
property; and 


vi) by a suit. 


Power of seizure of 
vehicles and animals 
in case of non- 
payment of tax 


Demolition, etc. of 
building. 


Remission of tax on 
unoccupied building. 


131. (1) If the tax on any vehicle or animal is not paid, then 
instead of proceeding against the defaulter by distrait and sale 
of his other movable property, the Commissioner may, at any 
time after the tax has become due, seize and detain the vehicle 
or animal or both, and if the owner or other person entitled 
thereto does not within seven days in respect of vehicle and 
two days in respect of an animal from the date of such seizure 
and detention, claim the same and pay the tax due together with 
the charges incurred in connection with the seizure and 
detention, the Commissioner may cause the same to be sold 
and apply the proceeds of the sale or such part thereof as is 
required in the discharge of the sum due and the charges 
incurred as aforesaid. 

(2) The surplus, if any, remaining after the application of 
the sale proceeds under sub-section (1) shall, immediately after 
the sale of the property, be credited to the Corporation Fund 
and notice of such credit shall be given at the same time the 
person whose property has been sold or his legal representative 
and if the same, is claimed by written application to the 
Commissioner within one year from the date of the notice, 
refund thereof shall be made to such person or his 
representative. 

(3) Any surplus not claimed within one year as aforesaid 
shall be the property of the Corporation. 

132. If any building is wholly or partly demolished or 
destroyed or otherwise deprived of value, the Commissioner 
may, on the application in writing of the owner or occupier, 
remit or refund such portion of any tax assessed on the annual 
value thereof as he thinks fit. 

14[“133. (1) When any building assessed to a tax under 
clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 87 which is payable by 
the year or by installments, has remained unoccupied and 
unproductive of rent throughout the year or the period in 
respect of which any installment is payable, the Corporation 
shall remit the amount of the tax or of the installment, as the 
case may be: 

Provided that no such remission shall be granted unless 
notice in writing of the circumstances under which it is claimed 
has been given to the Corporation within the first month after 
the expiry of the period in respect of which it is so claimed. 

(2) When any such building as aforesaid- 

(a) has not been occupied or productive of rent for 
any period of not less than sixty consecutive days; 
or 


Power to require 
entry in assessment 
list of details of 
buildings. 


Notice to be given of 
circumstances in 
which remission or 
refund is claimed. 


(b) consists of separate tenements, one or more of 
which has or have not been occupied or 
productive of rent for any such period as 
aforesaid; or 

(c) is wholly or in greater part demolished or 
destroyed by fire or otherwise, 

the Corporation may remit such portion, if any, of 
the tax or installment as it may think equitable. 

(3) The burden of proving the facts entitling any person to 
claim relief under this section shall lie upon him. 

(4) For the purposes of this section neither the presence of 
a caretaker nor the mere retention in an otherwise 
unoccupied dwelling house of the furniture habitually 
used in it shall constitute occupation of the house. 

(5) For the purposes of this section a house shall be deemed 
to be productive of rent if let to a tenant who has a 
continuing right of occupation thereof, whether it is 
actually occupied by such tenant or not. 

(6) The enquiry necessary for a decision whether any relief 
should be granted under this section shall be held by the 
Commissioner who shall make such recommendation to 
the Corporation as he may deem proper: 

Provided that the Corporation shall not grant any 
remission of tax unless the Commissioner recommends 
such remission. 

(7) If the remission of tax is granted on buildings under this 
section, then the tax shall be payable on the land underneath the 
buildings as on vacant land.] 

134. (1) For the purpose of obtaining a partial remission or 
refund of tax, the owner of a building composed of separate 
tenements, may request the Commissioner, at the time of the 
assessment of the building, to enter in the assessment list, in 
addition to the annual value of the whole building, a note 
regarding any detail of the l5[annual value of each separate 
tenement. 

(2) When any tenement, the ratable value of which has 
been thus separately recorded, has remained vacant and 
unproductive of rent for sixty or more consecutive days, such 
portion of any tax assessed on the annual value of the whole 
building, shall be remitted or refunded as would have been 
remitted or refunded if the tenement has been separately 
assessed. 

135. No remission or refund under section 133 or section 
134 shall be made unless notice in writing, of the fact that the 
land, building or tenement has become vacant and 


What building etc. are 
to be deemed vacant. 


Notice to be given of 
every occupation of 
vacant land or 
building. 


Appeal against 
assessment etc. 


Conditions of right to 
appeal. 


unproductive of rent, has been given to the Commissioner and 
no remission or refund shall take effect in respect of any period 
commencing more than fifteen days before delivery of such 
notice. 

136, (1) For the purposes of sections 133 and 134 no land, 
building or tenement shall be deemed vacant if maintained as a 
pleasure resort or town or country house or be deemed 
unproductive of rent if let to a tenant who has a continuing 
right of occupation thereof, whether he is in actual occupation 
or not. 

(2) The burden of proving the facts entitling any person to 
claim relief under section 132 or section 133, or section 134, 
shall be upon him. 

137. The owner of any land, building or tenement in respect 
of which a remission or refund or tax has been given under 
section 133 or section 134, shall give notice of the re- 
occupation of such land, building or tenement within fifteen 
days of such re-occupation. 

132. (1) An appeal against the levy or assessment of any tax 
under this Act, shall lie to the Divisional Commissioner, and 
every such appeal shall subject to the provisions of this Act, be 
received, heard and disposed of by him. 

(2) In every appeal, the cost shall be in the discretion of 
the appellate authority. 

(3) Costs awarded under this section to the Corporation 
shall be recoverable by the Corporation as an arrear of tax due 
from the appellant. 

(4) If the Corporation fails to pay any costs awarded to an 
appellant within ten days after the date of the order for payment 
thereof, the appellate authority may order the Commissioner to 
pay the amount to the appellant. 

139. No appeal shall be entertained under section 132, 
unless- 

(a) the appeal is, in the case of tax on lands and 
buildings, brought within thirty days next after the 
date of authentication of the assessment list under 
section 97 (exclusive of the time requisition for 
obtaining a copy of the relevant entries therein), or, 
as the case may be, within thirty days of the date of 
the receipt of the notice of assessment or of 
alteration of assessment or, if no notice has been 
given within thirty days of the date of the receipt of 
the notice of assessment or of the alteration of 
assessment or, if no notice has been given within 
thirty days after the date of service of the first notice 
of demand in respect thereof: 


Finality of appellate 
orders. 


Taxation not to be 
questioned except 
under this Act. 


Power to inspect for 
purposes of 
determining the 
ratable value or tax or 
fee. 


provided that an appeal may be admitted after the 
expiration of the period prescribed therefore by this section 
if the appellant satisfies the appellate authority that he had 
sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within that 
period; 

(b) the amount, if any, in dispute in the appeal has been 
deposited by the appellant in the office of the Corporation. 

140. Any person aggrieved by an order passed in appeal 
under section 138 may, within thirty days of the 
communication to him of such order, make an application in 
writing to the Government for revision against the said order 
and the Government may confirm, alter or rescind the said 
order: 

Provided that the Government shall not pass an order under 
this section prejudicial to any person without giving such 
person a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

141. (1) No objection shall be taken to any valuation or 
assessment, nor shall the liability of any person to be assessed 
or taxed be questioned in any other manner or by any other 
authority otherwise than as provided in this Act. 

(2) No refund of any tax shall be claimable by any person 
otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act 
and the rules made there under. 

142. (1) The Commissioner or any other person authorised 
by him in this behalf, may without giving any previous notice, 
enter upon and make an inspection of- 

(a) any land or building for the purpose of determining 
the 16[annual] value of such land or building; 

(b) any stable, garage, or coach house or any place 
wherein he may have reason to believe that there is 
nay vehicle or animal liable to a tax or fee under this 
Act; 

(c) any place or premises which he has reason to believe 
are being used or are about to be used for any 
performance or show in respect of which the show- 
tax is payable or would be payable; or 

(d) any land, building or vehicle in or upon which any 
advertisement liable to fee under this Act is exhibited 
or displace. 

(2) The Commissioner may, by written summons, require the 
attendance before him of any person whom he has reason to 
believe to be liable to the payment of a tax in respect of a 
vehicle or animal, or of any servant of any such person and may 
examine such person or servant as to the number and 
description of vehicles and animals owned by or in the 
possession or under the control of such person; and every 


Composition. 


Irrecoverable debts. 


Obligation to disclose 
liability. 


Power to amend list 
in certain cases. 


person or servant of such person so summoned shall be bound 
to attend before the Commissioner and to give information to 
the best of his knowledge and belief as to the said matters. 

143. (1) Subject to the rules made in this behalf, the 
Commissioner may, with the previous sanction of the 
Corporation, allow any person to compound any tax for a 
period not exceeding one year at a time. 

(2) Every sum due by reason of the composition of tax 
under sub-section (1) shall be recovered as an arrear of tax 
under this Act. 

144. (1) The Commissioner may write off any sum due on 
account of any tax or of the costs of recovering any tax if such 
sum is, in his opinion, irrecoverable: 

Provided that no sum exceeding one thousand rupees shall 
be written off in favour of any one person without the previous 
sanction of the Corporation. 

(2) The Commissioner shall report to the Corporation every 
case in which any sum has been written off under sub-section 
(1). 

145. (1) The Commissioner may, by written notice, call 
upon any person in the Municipal area to furnish such 
infonnation as may be necessary for the purpose of 
ascertaining- 

(a) whether such inhabitant is liable to pay any tax or 
fee imposed by the Corporation under this Act; 

(b) at what amount he should be assessed; or 

(c) the [annual] value of the land or building which he 
occupies and the name and address of the owner or 
lessee thereof. 

(2) If any person when called upon under sub section (1) to 
furnish infonnation neglects to furnish it within the period 
specified in this behalf by the Commissioner or furnishes 
information which is not true to the best of his knowledge or 
belief, he shall be liable, in addition to any penalty which may 
be imposed under this Act, to be assessed at such amount on 
account of tax or fee as the Commissioner may deem proper. 

146. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, 
where the prescribed authority is satisfied that any property has 
been erroneously valued or assessed through fraud, accident or 
mistake whether on the part of the Corporation or any officer or 
employees of the Corporation or of the assessed , it may, after 
giving to the assesses an opportunity of being heard and after 
making such enquiry as it may deem fit, pass an order 
amending the assessment already made and fixing the amount 
of tax payable for that property and on the issue of such an 
order the assessment list then in force shall, subject to the 


Immaterial error not 
to effect liability. 


Power of exemption. 


Power of Government 
in regard to taxes. 


Power of Corporation 
to borrow. 


order, if any, passed in appeal or revision be deemed to have 
been amended accordingly with effect from first day of 
January, or first day of April, or first day of July, or first day of 
October next following the month in which the order is passed. 

(2) Any person aggrieved by an order of the prescribed 
authority may, within a period of thirty days of the date of 
communication to him of the order, file an appeal to the 
Government which shall decide the appeal after giving to the 
appellant an opportunity of being heard. 

147. No assessment and no charge or demand on account of 
any tax shall be impeached or affected by reason only of any 
mistake in the name, residence, place of business or occupation 
of any person liable to pay the tax or in the description of any 
property or thing, or of any mistake in the amount of the 
assessment, charge or demand, or by reason only of clerical 
error or other defect of form, if the directions contained in this 
Act, and the bye-laws made there under have in substance and 
effect been complied with; and it shall be enough in the case of 
any such tax on property or any assessment of value for the 
purpose of any such tax, if the property taxed or assessed is so 
described as to be generally known, and it shall not be 
necessary to name the owner or occupier thereof. 

148. The Corporation may, by resolution passed in this behalf, 
exempt, in whole or in part for any period not exceeding one 
year from the payment of any tax, any person who by reason of 
poverty may in its opinion, be unable to pay the same, and may 
renew such exemption as of ten as may be necessary. 

149. (1) The Government may by order exempt in whole or in 
part from the payment of any tax any person or class of persons 
or any property or description of property. 

(2) If at any time it appears to the Government, on complaint 
made or other wise, that any tax imposed is unfair in its 
incidence or that the levy thereof or of any part thereof is 
injurious to the interests of the general public, it may require 
the Corporation to take within a specified period, measures to 
remove the objections; and , if within that period the 
requirement is not complied with to the satisfaction of the 
Government, the Government may, by notification suspend the 
levy of the tax or such part thereof until the objection has been 
removed. 


CHAPTER IX 
Borrowing 

150. (1) The Corporation may, in pursuance of any resolution 

nn««prl hv it hnrrnw hv wav nf rlphpnturp nr nthprwisp nn thp 


Time for repayment 
of money borrowed 
under section 150. 


Form and effects of 
debentures. 


passed by it, borrow by way of debenture or otherwise on the 
security of any immovable property vested in it or proposed to 
be acquired by it or of all or any of the taxes, rates, cases, fees 
and charges authorised by or under this Act, or from public 
financial institutions, any sums of money which may be 
required- 

(a) for acquiring any land which it has power to acquire; 

(b) for erecting any building which it has power to erect; 

(c) for the execution of any permanent work, the provision of 
any plant, or the doing of any other thing which it has 
power to execute, provide or do, if the cost of carrying 
out the purpose in question ought to be spread over a 
term of years; 

(d) to pay off any debt due to the Government; 

(e) to repay a loan previously raised under this Act or any 
other Act previously in force; or 

(f) for any other purpose for which the Corporation is, by 
virtue of this Act or any other law for the time being in 
force, authorised to borrow: 

Provided that- 

i) no loan shall be raised without the previous 
sanction of the Government; 

ii) the amount of loan, the rate of interest and the 
tenns including the date of flotation, the time 
and method of the repayment and the like 
shall be subject to the approval of the 
Government. 

(2) When any sum of money has been borrowed under sub- 
section (1), no portion of any sum of money borrowed for any 
of the purposes referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (1) shall 
be applied to the payment of salaries and allowances to any 
Corporation officers or other Corporation employees other than 
those exclusively employed in connection with the carrying out 
of that purpose. 

(3) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a local authority 
for the purpose of Local Authorities Act, 1914 (Central Act 9 of 
1914). 

151. The time for the repayment of any money borrowed under 
section 150 shall in no case exceed sixty years and the time for 
repayment of any money borrowed for the purpose of 
discharging any previous loan shall not, except with the express 
sanction of the Government extend beyond the un expired 
portion of the period for which such previous loan was 
sanctioned. 

152. All debentures issued under this Chapter shall be in such 
form as the Corporation may, with the previous sanction of the 


Payment to survivors 
of joint payees. 


Receipt by joint 
holders for the 
interest or dividend. 


Maintenance and 
investment of sinking 
funds. 


Application of 
sinking fund. 


Annual statement by 
Commissioner. 


Government, detennine and shall be transferable in such 
manner as shall be expressed, therein, and the right to sue in 
respect of the money secured by any of such debentures shall 
vest in the holders thereof for the time being without any 
preference by reason of some of such debentures being prior in 
date to other. 

153. When any debenture or security issued under this Act is 
payable to two or more persons jointly and either or any of 
them dies, then notwithstanding anything contained in section 
45 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the debenture or security 
shall be payable to the survivors of such person: 

Provided that nothing in this section shall effect any claim 
by the legal representative of a deceased person against such 
survivor or survivors. 

154. When two or more persons are joint holders of any 
debenture or security issued under this Act, any one of such 
persons may give an effectual receipt for any interest or 
dividend payable in respect of such debenture or security, 
unless notice to the contrary has been given to the Corporation 
by the other persons 

155. (1) The Corporation shall maintain sinking funds for the 
repayment of money borrowed on debentures issued and shall 
pay every year into such sinking funds such sun as will be 
sufficient for the repayment within the period fixed for the loan 
of all moneys borrowed on the debentures issued. 

(2) All moneys paid into the sinking funds shall, as soon as 
possible be invested by the Commissioner in public securities 
and every such investment shall be reported by the 
Commissioner to the Corporation within fifteen days. 

(3) All dividends and other sums received in respect of 
any such investment shall, as soon as possible after receipt, be 
paid into the sinking funds and invested in the manner laid 
down in sub-section (2). 

(4) Any investment made under this section may, subject to 
the provisions of sub-section (2), be varied or transposed. 

156. A sinking fund or any part thereof shall be applied in or 
towards the discharge of loan or a part of the loan for which 
such fund was created and until such loan or part is wholly 
discharged shall not be applied for any other purpose. 

157. (1) The Commissioner shall, at the end of every year, 
submit to the Corporation a statement showing, - 

(a) the amount which has been invested during the year 
under section 155; 

(b) the date of the last investment made previous to the 
submission of the statement; 

(c) the aggregate amount of the securities then in his hand; 


Priority of payment 
for interest and 
repayment of loans 
over other payments. 
Attachment of 
Corporation fund for 
recovery of money 
borrowed from 
Government. 


Power to make 
regulation 


Property vested in 
Corporation and 
management of public 
institutions. 


and 

(d) the aggregate amount which has up to the date of the 
statement been applied under section 156, in or towards 
discharging loans. 

(2) A copy of every such statement shall also be submitted to 
the Government. 

158. All payments due from the Corporation on account of 
interest and repayment of loans shall be made in priority to all 
other payments due from the Corporation. 

159. (1) If any money borrowed or deemed to have been 
borrowed by the Corporation from the Government or any 
interest or costs due in respect thereof be not repaid according 
to the conditions of the loan, the Government may attach the 
Corporation Fund or any part thereof. 

(2) After such attachment no person except an officer 
appointed in this behalf by the Government shall in any way 
deal with the attached fund; but such officer may do all acts in 
respect thereof which any Corporation authority, officer or 
other employee might have done if such attachment had not 
taken place and may apply the proceeds in satisfaction of the 
arrears and of all interests and costs due in respect thereof and 
of all expenses caused by the attachment and subsequent 
proceedings: 

Provided that no such attachment shall defeat or prejudice 
any debt for which the fund was previously charged in 
accordance with law; and all such prior charges shall be paid 
out of the proceeds of the funds before any part of the proceeds 
is applied to the satisfaction of the debt due to the Government. 

160. The Corporation may make regulations to carry out the 
purposes of this Chapter including, in particular, the issue of 
duplicate in case of loss of debentures by theft, destruction or 
otherwise, and renewal of debentures on payment of fees 
prescribed in this behalf by such regulations. 

161. (1) Subject to any special reservation made or to any 
special conditions imposed by the Government, all property of 
the nature here in after in this section specified and situated 
within the Municipal area, shall vest in and be under the control 
of the Corporation, and with all other property, which vests in 
the Corporation by virtue of the provisions of this Act or any 
other law for the time being in force, shall be held and applied 
by it for the purposes of this Act, that is to say,- 

(a) all such public town, walls, gates, markets, stalls, 
slaughter houses, manure and depots and public buildings 
of every description as have been constructed or are 
maintained out of the Corporation Funds; 

(b) all public streams springs and works for the supply, 


storage and distribution of water for public purposes, and 
all bridges, buildings, engines, materials and things 
connected therewith or appertaining thereto, and also any 
adjacent land (not being private property) appertaining to 
any public tank or well; 

(c) all public sewers and all drains, and sewers, culverts and 
water courses in or under any public street, or constructed 
by or for the Corporation alongside any public street, and 
all works, materials and things appertaining thereto; 

(d) all public lamps, lamp-posts and apparatus connected 
therewith or appertaining thereof; 

(e) all land or other property transferred to the Corporation 
by the Government or acquired by gift, purchase or 
otherwise for public purposes; 

(f) all public streets, not being land owned by Government 
and the pavements, stones and other materials thereof, 
and also trees growing on and erections, materials, 
implements and things provided for such streets. 17[;] 

ls[(g) Shamlat Deh.] 

(2) Where any immovable property is transferred otherwise 
than by sale by the Government to the Corporation for public 
purposes, it shall be deemed to be a condition of such transfer, 
unless specially provided to the contrary that should the 
property be at any time resumed by Government, the 
compensation payable therefore shall in no case exceed the 
amount. If any, paid to the Government for the transfer, 
together with the cost or the present value whichever shall be 
less, of any buildings erected, other works executed on the land 
by the Corporation. 

(3) The Corporation shall maintain a register and a map of 
immovable property of which it is the proprietor or which vests 
in it, or which it holds it trust for the Government. 

(4) The management, control and administration of every 
public institution maintained out of the Corporation Fund shall 
vest in the Corporation. 

(5) When any public institution has been placed under the 
direction, management and control of the Corporation, all 
property, endowments and funds belonging thereto shall be 
held by the Corporation in rust for purposes to which such 
property, endowments and funds were lawfully applicable at 
the time when the institution was so placed: 

Provided that the extent of the independent authority of the 
Corporation in respect of any such institution may be 
prescribed by the Government. 

CHAPTER X 

PROPERTIES AND CONTRACTS 


Request for 
acquisition of land by 
the Corporation. 

Acquisition of 
immovable property 
by the Government. 


Disposal of Property. 


Contracts by 
Corporation. 


162. When any land whether within or without the limits of the 
Corporation is required for the purposes of this Act the 
Commissioner shall request the Government to acquire it under 
the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. 

163. Whenever a request is received by the Government, the 
Government shall acquire the land under the provisions of the 
Land Acquisition Act, 1894, on payment of compensation by 
the Corporation awarded under that Act and of the charges 
incurred by the Government in connection with the 
proceedings, where after the land shall vest in the Corporation. 

164. With respect to the disposal of property belonging to the 
Corporation the following provisions shall have effect, 
namely 

(a) the Commissioner may, - 

i) dispose of by sale or otherwise, any movable 
property belonging to the Corporation the 
value of which does not exceed twenty 
thousand rupees; 

ii) grants a lease not exceeding a period of 10 
years, of any immovable property belonging 
to the Corporation; or 

iii) sell or grant a lease in perpetuity of any 
immovable property belonging to the 
Corporation the value of which does not 
exceed twenty thousand rupees or the annual 
rent of which does not exceed ten thousand 
rupees; 

(b) in cases not covered by clause (a) the Commissioner 
may, with the sanction of the Government on 
recommendation of the Corporation, lease, sell, let out on 
hire or otherwise transfer any property movable or 
immovable belonging to the Corporation; 

(c) the consideration for which any immovable property may 
be sold, leased or otherwise transferred shall not be less 
than value at which such immovable property could be 
sold, leased or otherwise transferred in nonnal and fair 
competition; 

(d) the sanction of the Government under the aforesaid 
clauses may be given either generally for any class of 
cases or specially for any particular case; 

(e) subject to any condition or limitation that may be 
specified by or under, or for any purposes of this Act; 

(f) every case of disposal of property under clause (a) shall 
be reported by the Commissioner without delay to the 
Corporation. 

165. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 166 the 

Lnmnratinn ^hall hp rnrrmptpnt tn pntpr intn anrl nprfnrm an v 


Procedure for making 
contracts. 


Mode of executing 
contracts. 


Maintenance of 
accounts and scrutiny 
thereof by Examiner 
Local Fund Accounts, 
Haryana and by 
Corporation. 


Corporation shall be competent to enter into and perform any 
contract necessary for the purposes of this Act. 

(2) The contracts by the Corporation under this Act would 
be made in the manner prescribed. 

166. With respect to the making of contracts, the following 
provisions shall have effect, namely:- 

(a) every such contract shall be made on behalf of the 
Corporation by the Commissioner; 

(b) no such contract, for any purpose which in accordance 
with any provision of this Act the Commissioner may not 
carry out without the approval or sanction of the 
Corporation, shall be made by him until and unless such 
approval or sanction has been duly obtained; 

(c) every contract involving an expenditure no exceeding 
ll)[five lacs] 

(d) no contract, other than a contract falling under clause (c) 
shall be valid unless the same has been made with the 
prior approval of the Corporation: 

Provided that contracts exceeding Rs. 10 lacs in value or such 
other higher amount as the Government may fix, shall be 
entered into by the Corporation only after prior approval of the 
Government. 

167. (1) The made of executing contracts under this Act shall 
be prescribed by bye-laws made in this behalf. 

(2) No contract which is not made in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act and the bye-laws made there under shall 
be binding on the Corporation. 

CHAPTER-XI 
ACCOUNTS & AUDIT 

168. (1) There shall be kept in such manner and in such form 
as may be prescribed by regulations accounts of receipts and 
expenditure of the Corporation. 

(2) Till regulations as mentioned in sub-section (1) are 
framed, the provisions of the Municipal Account Code, 1930, 
Presently in force in respect of the Municipal Committees shall 
be applicable. 

(3) The Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana, shall 
conduct day to day examination and audit of the Corporation 
accounts and shall furnish monthly report thereon to the 
Corporation who shall publish monthly an abstract of the 
receipts and expenditure of the month last preceding signed by 
the Mayor or in his absence by the Senior Deputy Mayor or in 
the absence of both by the Deputy Mayor and by the Examiner, 
Local Fund Accounts, Haryana. 

(4) For the purpose of examination and audit of the 
Corporation accounts the Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, 


Report by Examiner, 
Local Fund Accounts, 
Haryana. 


Action by 

Commissioner on the 
report. 


Procedure to be 
followed by 
Examiner, Local 
Fund Accounts, 
Haryana. 


Haryana shall have access to all the Corporation accounts and 
to all records and correspondence relating thereto and the 
Commissioner shall forthwith furnish to the Examiner, Local 
Fund Accounts. Haryana, any explanation concerning any 
receipts or expenditure which they may call for. 

169. (1) The Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana shall- 

(a) report to the Corporation any material impropriety or 
irregularity which he may at any time observe in the 
expenditure or in the recovery of moneys due to the 
Corporation or in the Corporation accounts; 

(b) furnish to the Corporation such information as it may 
from time to time require concerning progress of the 
audit. 

(2) On receipt of the report under sub-section (1) the 
Corporation shall take such action thereon as may be deemed 
necessary. 

(3) As soon as may be after the commencement of each year, 
the Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana shall deliver to 
the Corporation, a report of the entire Corporation accounts for 
the previous year. 

(4) The Commissioner shall cause the said report to be 
printed and shall forward as soon as may be a printed copy 
thereof to each member. 

170. (1) The Commissioner shall, as soon as may be, remedy 
defects or irregularities, if any, pointed out in the said report 
and shall also forward without delay to the Government so 
many copies of the said report as may be required by the 
Government with a brief statement of the action, if any taken or 
proposed to be taken thereon. 

(2) If there is a difference of opinion between the Examiner, 
Local Fund Accounts, Haryana and the Commissioner or if the 
Commissioner does not remedy the defects or irregularities 
pointed out in the report within a reasonable period the 
Examiner shall refer the matter to the Secretary, Local 
Government Department whose decision shall be final and 
binding. 

171. (1) The Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana shall 
audit the accounts of the Corporation with the assistance of 
officers and other employees subordinate to him. 

(2) In the discharge of his functions under this section, the 
Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana, shall- 

(a) audit the accounts of expenditure of the Corporation and 
shall ascertain whether moneys shown therein as having 
been disbursed were legally available for, and applicable 
to the service or purpose to which they have been applied 


Power of Examiner, 
Local Fund Accounts, 
Haryana to make 
queries etc. and call 
for returns etc. 


or charged, and whether the expenditure conforms to the 
authority which governs it; 

(b) audit the accounts of debt, deposits, sinking funds, 
advances, suspense and remittance transactions of the 
Corporation and report upon the accounts and upon the 
results of verification of the balances relating thereto. 

(3) The Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana shall 
examine and audit the statement of accounts relating to the 
commercial services conducted in any department of the 
Corporation, including the trading, manufacturing and profit 
and loss accounts, and the balance-sheets where such accounts 
are maintained under the order of the Corporation, and shall 
certify and report upon these accounts. 

(4) The Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana, shall in 
consultation with the Commissioner and subject to any 
directions given by the Government determine the fonn and 
manner to which his reports on the accounts of the Corporation 
shall be prepared and shall have authority to call upon any 
officer of the Corporation to provide any infonnation necessary 
for the preparation of these reports. 

172. (1) The Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana may 
make such queries and observations in relation to and of the 
accounts of the Corporation which he is required to audit and 
call for such vouchers, statements, returns and explanations in 
relation to such accounts as he may think fit. 

(2) Every such query or observation as afore said shall be 
promptly taken into consideration by the officer or authority to 
whom it may be addressed and returned without delay with the 
necessary vouchers, documents or explanations to the 
Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana. 

(3) The powers of the Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, 
Haryana with regard to the disapproval of and the procedure 
with regard to the settlement of objections to the expenditure 
from the revenues of the Corporation shall be such as may be 
prescribed in consultation with the Examiner, Local Fund 
Accounts, Haryana and the Corporation. 

(4) If the Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Haryana 
considers it desirable, that the whole or any part of the audit 
applied to any accounts which he is required to audit, may be 
conducted in the offices in which those accounts originate, he 
may require those accounts together with all books and 
documents having relation thereto, and at all convenient times 
make available to the officers for inspection. 

(5) The Examiner, Lacal Fund Accounts, Haryana shall have 
the powers to require that any books or other documents 
relating to the accounts he is required to audit shall be sent for 


inspection by him: 

Provided that if the documents are confidential he shall be 
responsible for preventing disclosure of their contents. 

(6) The Examiner, Local Fund Accounts Haryana shall have 
authority to frame standing orders and to give directions on all 
matters relating to audit and particularly in respect of the 
method and the extent of audit to be applied and the raising and 
pursuing of objections. 

CHAPTER-XII 

WATER SUPPLY, DRAINAGE AND SEWAGE 
DISPOSAL 

Definitions. 173. in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the 

following words and expressions in relation to water supply 
shall have the respective meanings given below, namely:- 

(1) “Communication pipe” rneans- 

(a) where the premises supplied with water about on the 
part of the street in which the main is laid, and the 
service pipe enters those premises otherwise than 
thought the outer wall of a building on the street and 
has a stopcock placed in those premises and as near to 
the boundary of that street as is reasonably practicable, 
so much of the services pipe as lies between the main 
and that stopcock; 

(b) in any other case, so much of the service pipe as lies 
between the main and the boundary of the street in 
which the main is laid, and includes the ferrule at the 
junction of the service pipe with the main, and also- 

i) where the communication pipe ends at a 
stopcock that stopcock; and 

ii) any stopcock fitted on the communication 
pipe between the end there of and the main; 

(2) “main” means a pipe laid by the Corporation for the 
purpose of giving a general supply of water, individual 
consumers and includes any apparatus used in 
connection with such a pipe; 

(3) “service pipe” means so much of any pipe for supplying 
water from a main to any remises as is subject to water 
pressure from that main, or would be so subject but for 
the closing of some tap; 

(4) “supply pipe” means so much of any service pipe which 
is not a communication pipe; 

(5) “trunk main” means a main constructed for the 
purposes of conveying water from a source of supply to 
a filter or reservoir or from one filter or reservoir to 
another filter or reservoir, or for the purpose of 
conveying water in bulk from one part of the limits of 


supply to another part of those limits or for the purpose 
of giving or taking supply of water in bulk; 

(6) “water fitting” includes pipes (other than mains) taps, 
cocks, valves, ferrules, meters, cisterns, baths and other 
similar apparatus used in connection with the supply 
and use of water. 


Power to require 
Corporation to carry 
out surveys and 
formulate proposals. 


Power to construct 
additional works. 


Function in relation to 
water supply. 


174. The Government may require the Corporation to- 

(a) carry out a survey of the existing consumption of and 
demand for water supplies in the Municipal area and of 
the water resources in or available for the Municipal area; 

(b) Prepare an estimate of the future water supply retirements 
of the Municipal area; 

(c) Carry out a survey of the existing quality of sewage 
disposed of and the manner in which it is disposed of; 

(d) Formulate proposals as to- 

i) the existing or future sewage disposal 

requirements of the Municipal area; 

ii) the existing or future sewage disposal 

requirements in the Municipal area including 
proposals for the manner in which and the 
place or places at which such sewage should 
be carried, treated and disposed of. 

175. If the Corporation is of the opinion that the works and 
other properties for the time being vested in it for the purpose 
of water supply, drainage and sewage disposal are inadequate 
for the purpose of sufficient supply of water or for the purpose 
of proper drainage and efficient disposal of sewage under this 
Act, it may take steps in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act for the construction of additional works, whether within or 
outside the limits of the Corporation and for the acquisition of 
additional properties for such works. 

176. (1) It shall be the duty of the Corporation to take steps 
from time to time- 

(a) for ascertaining the sufficiency and wholesomeness of 
water supplies within the Municipal area; 

(b) for providing a supply of wholesome water in pipes to 
every part of the Municipal area in which there are 
houses, for the domestic purpose of the occupants 
thereof, and for taking pipes affording that supply to such 
point or points as will enable the houses, to be connected 
thereto at a reasonable cost, so however, that this clause 
shall not require the Corporation to do anything which is 
not practicable at a reasonable cost or to provide such 
supply to any part of Municipal are where such a supply 
is already available as such point or points aforesaid; 


Supply of water to 
connected premises. 


Power to supply 
water for no domestic 
purposes. 


Making connections 
with municipal water 
works. 


(c) for providing, as far as possible, a supply of wholesome 
water otherwise than in pipes to every part of the 
Municipal area in which there are houses, for the 
domestic purposes of the occupants thereof and to which 
it is not practicable to provide a supply in pipes at a 
reasonable cost, and in which danger to health arises 
from the insufficiency or unwholesomeness of the 
existing supply and a public supply is required and can 
be provided at a reasonable cost, and for securing that 
such supply is available within a reasonable distance of 
every house in that part. 

(2) If any question arises under clause (b) of sub-section (1) as 
to whether anything is or is not practicable at a reasonable cost 
or is to the point or points, to which pipes must be taken in 
order to enable houses to be connected to them at reasonable 
cost, or under clause (c) thereof as to whether a public supply 
can be provided at a reasonable cost the Corporation shall 
detennine that question and there upon the Commissioner shall 
give effect to that detennination. 

177. (1) The Commissioner may on application by the owner of 
any building, arrange for supplying water from the nearest main 
to such building for domestic purposes in such quantities as the 
deems reasonable, and may at any time limit the amount of 
water to be supplied whenever he considers necessary. 

(2) Apart from the charges for the domestic supply at rates 
as may be fixed by the Government, additional charges wil be 
payable for the following supplies of water: - 

(a) for animals or for washing vehicles where such animals 
or vehicles are kept for sale or hire; 

(b) for any trade, manufacture or business; 

(c) for fountains, swimming baths, or for any ornamental or 
mechanical purposes; 

(d) for gardens or for purposes of irrigation; 

(e) for watering roads and paths; 

(f) for building purposes. 

178. (1) The Commissioner may supply water for any purpose 
other than a domestic purpose on such terms and conditions 
consistent with this Act and the bye-laws made there under as 
may be laid down in this behalf by the Corporation in receiving 
a written application specifying the purpose for which the 
supply is required and the quantity likely to be consumed. 

(2) The Commissioner may withdraw such supply at any 
time if it should appear necessary to do so in order to maintain 
a sufficient supply of water for domestic purposes. 

179. (1) Where an application under section 177 or section 178 
has been received, all necessary communication pipes and 


Obligation of owner 
or occupier to give 
notice of waste of 
water. 


Cutting of supply to 
premises. 


New premises not to 
be occupied without 
arrangement for water 
supply. 


Public gratuitous 
water supply. 


fitting shall be supplied by the Corporation and the work of 
laying and applying such communication pipes and fitting shall 
be executed by Corporation agency under the orders of the 
Commissioner, but the cost of making any such connection and 
of all communication pipes and fittings so supplied and of all 
works so executed, shall be paid by the owner or the person 
making such application. The Corporation may either provide a 
meter and charge rent for the same or may require the owner or 
applicant to provide a meter of such size, material and 
description s it shall approve. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), 
the Commissioner may require any owner or person applying 
for a supply of water to provide all communication pipes and 
fittings and to carry out at his own cost under his supervision 
and inspection all the work of laying and applying such 
communication pipes and fittings. 

180. Any owner or occupier of any building or land in or on 
which water supplied under this Act is misused from 
negligence or other circumstances under his control or used 
without permission in excess of the quantity fixed under section 
177 or section 178 or in which the pipes, mains or other works 
are out of repair to such an extent as to cause waste of water, 
shall, if he has knowledge thereof, be bound to give notice of 
the same to such officer as the Corporation may appoint in this 
behalf. 

181. If any person whose premises are supplied with water, 
neglects to pay the water-tax or any sum payable, under section 
177 or section 178 when due, or to give notice as provided in 
the last preceding section, or willfully or negligently misuses or 
causes waste of water, the Corporation may cut off the supply 
of water from the said premises. 

182. It shall not be lawful for the owner of any premises which 
may be newly constructed or reconstructed within any portion 
of the Municipal area, in respect of which the Commissioner 
has given public notice under clause (b) of section 90, to 
occupy it or cause or permit it to be occupied until he has 
obtained a certificate from the Commissioner that there is 
provided within, or within a reasonable distance of the 
premises, such supply of wholesome water as appears to the 
Commissioner to be adequate for the person who may occupy, 
or be employed in, such premises for their domestic purposes. 

183. (1) The Commissioner, with the approval of the 
Corporation, may provide gratuitous supply of wholesome 
water to the public within the municipal area and may, for that 
purpose, erect public hydrants or other convenience. 

(2) The Commissioner may, with like approval, close a 


Power to lay mains. 


Power to lay service 
pipes, etc. 


Provision of fire 
hydrants. 


public hydrant or other convenience when it is no longer 
required for the supply of wholesome water to the public. 

184. (1) The Commissioner may, lay a main whether within or 
outside the limits of the Corporation- 

(a) in any street; and 

(b) with the consent of every owner and occupier of any land 
not forming part of a street, in, over or on that land, and 
may, from time to time in respect, repair, alter or renew 
or may at any time remove any main so laid whether by 
virtue or this section or otherwise: 

Provided that where a consent required for the purpose of this 
sub-section is withheld, the Commissioner may, after giving the 
owner or occupier of the land a written notice of his intention 
so to do, lay the main in, over or on that land even without such 
consent. 

(2) Where the Commissioner, in exercise of the powers 
under this section lays a main, in over r on any land and not 
forming part of a street or inspects, repairs, alters, renews or 
removes a main so laid down in, over or on any such land, he 
shall pay compensation to every person interested in that land 
for any damage done to, or injurious affection of that land by 
reasons of the inspection, laying, repair, alteration, renewal or 
removal of the main. 

185. (1) The Commissioner may, in any street, whether within 
or outside the limits of the Corporation, lay such service pipes 
with such stopcocks and other water fittings as he may deem 
necessary for supplying water to premises and may, from time 
to time, inspect, repair, alter or renew and may, at any time, 
remove any service pipe laid in a street whether by virtue of 
this section or otherwise. 

(2) Where a service pipe has been lawfully laid in, over or 
on the land not forming part of a street the Commissioner may, 
from time to time, enter upon that land and inspect, repair, alter, 
renew or remove the pipe or lay a new pipe in substitution 
thereof but shall pay compensation for any damage done in the 
course of such action. 

186. (1) The Commissioner shall fix hydrants on water mains 
(other than trunk mains) at such places as may be most 
convenient for affording supply of water for extinguishing any 
fire which may break out and shall keep in good order and from 
time to time renew every such hydrant. 

(2) To denote the situation of every hydrant placed under 
this section, letters, marks or figures shall be displayed 
prominently on some wall, building or other structure near such 
hydrant. 

(3) As soon as any such hydrant is completed, the 


Power of Corporation 
to require owners of 
premises to set up 
pumps etc. 

Power to enter 
premises to detect 
waste or misuse of 
water. 


Power to test water 
fittings. 

Power to close or 
restrict use of water 
from polluted source 
of supply. 


commissioner shall deposit a key thereof at each place where a 
public fire engine is kept and in such other places as he deems 
necessary. 

(4) The Commissioner may, at the request and expense of the 
owner or occupier of any factory, workshop, trade, premises or 
place of business, situated in or near a street in which a pipe is 
laid (and not being a trunk main and being of sufficient 
dimensions to carry a hydrant), fix on the pipe and keep in good 
order from time to time to renew one or more fire hydrants to 
be used only for extinguishing fires as near as conveniently 
may be to that factory, workshop trade premises or place of 
business. 

(5) The Commissioner shall allow all persons to take water 
for extinguishing fires from any pipe on which a hydrant is 
fixed without any payment. 

187. The owner of every premises connected with the 
Corporation water works shall, when so required by the 
Commissioner, set up electric pumps or other contrivances 
whereby water may be caused to reach to the top of the top 
most story of such premises. 

188. The Commissioner or any Corporation officer authorised 
by the Commissioner in writing may, between sunrise and 
sunset, enter any premises supplied with water by the 
Corporation in order to examine if there be any waste or misuse 
of such water and the Commissioner or such officer shall not be 
refused admittance to the premises nor shall be obstructed by 
any person in making his examination. 

189. The Commissioner may test any water fittings used in 
connection with water supplied by the Corporation. 

190. (1) If the Commissioner is of opinion that water in or 
obtained from any well, tank or other source of supply not 
vested in the Corporation, being water which is or if likely to be 
used for domestic purposes, or for the preparation of food or 
drink for human consumption, or is likely to become so 
polluted as to be prejudicial to health, the Commissioner may 
after giving the owner or occupier of the premises in which the 
source of supply is situated a reasonable opportunity of being 
heard, by order direct that the source of supply be permanently 
or temporarily closed or cut off or the water there from be used 
for certain purposes only or make such order as appears to him 
necessary to prevent injury or danger to the health of persons 
using the water or consuming food or drink prepared there with 
or there from. 

(2) Before making any order under this section, the 
Commissioner may cause the water to be analyzed at the cost of 
the Corporation. 


Water pipes etc. not 
to be placed where 
water will be 
polluted. 


Joint and several 
liability of owners 
and occupiers for 
offence in relation to 
water supply. 

Public drains etc. to 
vest in Corporation. 


Control of drain and 
sewage disposal 
works. 


(3) If the person to whom an order is made under this section 
fails to comply therewith, the Commissioner may do whatever 
may be necessary for giving effect to the order, and any 
expenses reasonably incurred by him in so doing may be 
recovered by him from the person in default as an arrear of tax 
under this Act. 

191. (1) No water pipes shall be laid in a drain or on the 
surface of an open channel or house gully or within six meters 
of cesspool or in any position where the pipe is likely to be 
injured or the water therein polluted; and no well or tank except 
with the consent of the Commissioner and no cistern shall be 
constructed within six meters of a latrine or cesspool. 

(2) No latrine or cesspool shall be constructed or made 
within six meters of any well, tank, water pipe or cistern or in 
any position where the pipe, well, tank or cistern is likely to be 
injured or the water therein polluted. 

192. If any offence relating to water supply is committed under 
this Act in any premises connected with the Corporation water 
works, the owner, the person primarily liable for the payment of 
the water tax, and the occupiers of the said premises shall be 
jointly and severally liable for such offence. 

193. (1) All public drains, all drains in, along side or under any 
public street, and all sewage disposal works whether 
constructed out of the Corporation Fund or otherwise, and all 
works, materials and things pertaining thereto which are 
situated in the Municipal area shall vest in the Corporation. 

(2) All public and other drains which are vested in the 
Corporation are here after in this Act referred to as Corporation 
drains. 

(3) For the purposes of enlarging, deepening or otherwise 
repairing or maintaining any such drain or sewage disposal 
work so much of the sub soil pertaining thereto as may be 
necessary for the said purposes shall also be deemed to vest in 
the Corporation. 

(4) All drains and ventilation- shifts, pipes and all appliances 
and fittings connected with the drains works constructed, 
erected or set up out of the Corporation Fund in or upon 
premises not belonging to the Corporation, whether- 

(a) before or after the commencement of this Act; and 

(b) for the use of the owner or occupier of such premises or 
not, 

Shall unless the Corporation has otherwise determined, or 
does at any time otherwise determine, vest and be deemed 
always to have vested in the Corporation. 

194. (1) All Corporation drains, all sewage disposal works and 
works materials and things appertaining thereto shall be under 


Certain matters not to 
be passed into 
municipal drains. 


Application by 
owners and occupiers 
to drain into 
municipal drain. 


the control of the Commissioner. 

(2) The Commissioner shall maintain and keep in repair all 
municipal drains and sewage disposal works and when 
authorised by the Corporation in this behalf, shall construct as 
many new drains and sewage disposal works as may from time 
to time be necessary for effectual drainage and sewage disposal. 

195. No person shall throw, empty or turn into any Corporation 
drain or into any drain communicating with a Corporation 
drain- 

(a) any matter likely to injure the drain or to interfere with he 
free flow of its contents, or to affect prejudicially the 
treatment and disposal of its contents; or 

(b) any chemical, refuse or waste steam, or any liquid of a 
temperature higher than forty-five degrees Celsius being 
refuse or steam which, or a liquid which when so heated, 
is, either alone or in combination with the contents of the 
drain, dangerous or the cause of nuisance, or prejudicial 
to health; or 

(c) any dangerous petroleum. 

Explanation.- In this section the expression “dangerous 
petroleum” has the same meaning as is assigned in the 
Petroleum Act, 1934 (Central Act 30 of 1934). 

196. (1) Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by 
bye-laws made in this behalf, the owner or occupier of any 
premises having a private drain, or the owner of any private 
drain within the Municipal area may apply to the Commissioner 
to have his drain made to communicate with the drains and 
thereby to discharge foul water and surface water from those 
premises or that private drain: 

Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall entitle any 
person- 

(a) to discharge directly or indirectly into any Corporation 
drain- 

i) any trade effluent from any trade premises 
except in accordance with bye-laws made in 
this behalf; or 

ii) any liquid or other matter the discharge of 
which into Corporation drains is prohibited by 
or under this Act on any other law; or 

(b) where separate Corporation drains are provided for 
foul water and for surface water to discharge directly or 
indirectly:- 

i) foul water into a drain provided for surface 
water; or 

ii) except with the permission of the 

Commissioner, surface water into drain 


provided for foul water; or 

(c) to have his drains made to communicate directly with a 
stonn water overflow drain. 

(2) Any person desirous of availing himself of the provisions of 
subsection (1), shall give to the Commissioner a notice of his 
proposals, and at any time within one month after receipt 
thereof, the Commissioner may by notice to him refuse to 
permit the communication to be made, if it appears to him that 
the mode of construction or condition of the drain is such that 
the making of the communication would be prejudicial to the 
drainage system, and for the purpose of examining the mode of 
construction and condition of the drain he may, if necessary, 
require it to be laid open for inspection. 

(3) The Commissioner may, if he thinks fit, construct such 
part of the work necessary for having a private drain made to 
communicate with the municipal drain as is in or under a public 
street and in such a case the expenses incurred by the 
Commissioner, shall be paid by the owner or occupier of the 
premises, or as the case may be, the owner of the private drain 
and shall be recoverable from the owner or occupier as an 
arrears of tax under this Act. 

Drainage of untrained 197. (1) Where any premises are in the opinion of the 

premises. Commissioner, without sufficient means of effectual drainage 

and a municipal drain or some place approved by the 
Commissioner for the discharge of filth and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter is situated at a distance of not exceeding 
thirty meters from any part of the said premises, he may, by 
written notice, require, the owner of the said premises- 

(a) to make a drain emptying into such Corporation drain or 
place; 

(b) to provide and set up all such appliances and fittings as 
my appear to the Commissioner necessary for the 
purpose of gathering and receiving the fifth and other 
polluted and obnoxious matter from, and conveying the 
same off, the said premises and of effectually flushing 
such drain and every fixture connected therewith; 

(c) to remove any existing drain or other appliance or thing 
used or intended to be used for drainage which is 
injurious to health; 

(d) to provide a close drain in substitution of an open drain 
or to provide such other appliance or thing either newly 
or in substitution of any existing appliance or thing or to 
provide both a closed drain and such other appliance or 
thing in substitution of the existing open drain and other 
appliance or thing, which is or likely to be injurious to 


New premises not to 
be erected without 
drainage. 


Power to drain group 
or block of premises 
by combined 
operations. 


health; 

(e) to provide and set up all such appliances and fittings as 
may appear to the Commissioner to be necessary for the 
purpose of gathering and receiving the waste water from 
floors and galleries of buildings pipes when are washed 
and conveying the same through spouts, by down take so 
as to prevent such waste water from discharging directly 
on streets or inside and owner portion of the premises; 

(f) to carry out any work to improve or re-model an existing 
drain which is inadequate, insufficient or faulty. 

(2) Where in any case not provided for in sub-section (1) any 
premises are in the opinion of the Commissioner, without 
sufficient means of effectual drainage, he may, by written 
notice, require the owner of the premises:- 

(a) to construct a drain up to a point to be prescribed in such 
notice but not at a distance of more than thirty meters 
from any part of the premises; or 

(b) to construct a close cesspool or soakage pit and drain or 
drains emptying into such cesspool or soakage pit. 

(3) Any requisition for the construction of any drain under 
sub-section (2) may contain any of the details specified in sub- 
section (1). 

198. (1) It shall not be lawful to erect or to re-erect any 
premises in the municipal area or to occupy any such premises, 
unless- 

(a) a drain be constructed of such size, materials, and with 
such fall as shall appear to the Commissioner to be 
necessary for the effectual drainage of such premises; 

(b) there have been provided and set up on such premises, 
such appliances and fittings as may appear to the 
Commissioner to be necessary for the purpose of 
gathering or receiving the filth and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter from, and conveying the same off, the 
said premises and of effectually flushing the drain of the 
said premises and every fixture connected therewith. 

(2) The drain so constructed shall empty into a Corporation 
drain situated at a distance of not exceeding thirty meters from 
the premises, but if no Corporation drain is situated within that 
distance then such drain shall empty into a cesspool situated 
within that distance to be specified by the Commissioner for the 
purpose. 

199. (1) If it appears to the Commissioner that any group or 
block of premises may be drained more economically or 
advantageously in combination than separately, and a 
Corporation drain of sufficient size already exist or is about to 
be constructed within thirty meters of any part of that group or 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
close or limit the use 
of private drain in 
certain cases. 


Use of drain by a 
person other than 
owner. 


block of premises, the Commissioner may cause that group or 
block of premises, to be detained by a combined operation. 

(2) The expenses incurred in carrying out any work under 
sub-section (1) in respect of any group or block of premises 
shall be paid by the owners of such premises in such proportion 
as the Commissioner may detennine and shall be recoverable 
from them as an arrear of tax under this Act. 

(3) Not less than fifteen days before any such work is 
commenced, the Commissioner shall give to each such owner- 

(a) written notice of nature of the proposed works; and 

(b) an estimate of the expenses to be incurred in respect 
thereof and of the proportion of such expenses payable 
by him. 

(4) The Commissioner may require the owners of such group 
or block of premises to maintain the work executed under this 
section. 

200. Where a drain connecting any premises with a 
Corporation drain is sufficient for the effectual drainage of such 
premises and is otherwise un-objectionable but is not in the 
opinion of the Commissioner, adapted to the general system of 
drainage in the Municipal area, he may, by written notice 
addressed to the owner of the premises, direct- 

(a) that such drain be closed, discontinued or destroyed and 
that any work necessary for that purpose be done; or 

(b) that such drain shall, from such date as may be specified in 
the notice in this behalf, be used for filth and polluted 
water only or for rain water and unpolluted sub-soil water 
only: 

Provided that- 

i) no drain may be closed, discontinued or 
destroyed by the Commissioner under clause (a) 
except on condition of his providing another 
drain equally effectual for the drainage of the 
premises and communicating with any 
Corporation drain which he thinks fit; and 

ii) the expenses of the construction of any drain so 
provided by the Corporation and of any work 
done under clause (a) may be paid out of the 
Corporation Fund. 

201. (1) Where the Commissioner either on receipt of an 
application from the owner of any premises or otherwise is of 
opinion that the only or the most conve3nient means of 
effectual drainage of the premises into Corporation drain is 
through a drain belonging to another person, the Commissioner 
may, by notice in writing, require the owner of such drain to 
show cause within a period specified in the notice as to why an 


Sewage and rain 
water drains to be 
distinct. 


Powers of 
Commissioner to 
require owner to carry 
out certain works for 
satisfactory drainage. 


Appointment of 
places for the 
emptying of drain and 
disposal of sewage. 


Connection with 
water works and 
drains not to be made 


order under this section should not be made. 

(2) Where no cause is shown within the specified period or 
the cause shown appears to the Commissioner invalid or 
insufficient, the Commissioner may, by order in writing either 
authorise the owner of the premises to use the drain or declare 
him to be joint owner thereof. 

(3) An order made under sub-section (2) may contain 
directions as to- 

(a) the payment of rent or compensation by the owner of 
the premises; 

(b) the construction of the drain fro the premises for the 
purpose of connecting with the aforesaid drain; 

(c) the entry upon the land in which the aforesaid drain is 
situated with assistants and workmen at all reasonable 
hours; and 

(d) the respective responsibilities of the parties for 
maintaining, repairing flushing, cleaning and emptying 
the aforesaid drain. 

202. Wherever it is provided in this Chapter that steps shall or 
may be taken for the effectual drainage of any premises, it shall 
be competent for the Commissioner to require that there shall 
be one drain for fifth and polluted water and an entirely distinct 
drain for rain water and unpolluted sub-soil water or both rain 
water and unpolluted sub-soil water, each emptying into 
separate Corporation drains or other suitable places. 

203. For the purpose of efficient drainage of any premises, the 
Commissioner may by notice in writing- 

(a) require any courtyard, alley or passage between two or 
more buildings to be paved by the owner or owners of 
such buildings, with such materials and in such manner 
as may be approved by the Commissioner; and 

(b) require such paving to be kept in proper repair. 

204. The Commissioner may cause any or all of the 
Corporation drains to empty into and all sewage to be disposed 
of at such place or places as he considers suitable: 

Provided that no place which has not been before the 
commencement of this Act used for any of the purposes 
specified in this section, shall after such commencement be 
used therefore with the approval of the Corporation: 

Provided further that on and after such date as may be 
appointed by the Government in this behalf no sewage shall be 
discharged into any water-course until it has been so treated as 
not to effect prejudicially the purity and quality of the water 
into which it is discharged. 

205. Without the written permission of Commissioner, no 
person shall for any purpose whatsoever at any time make or 


with out permission. 


Buildings, railways 
and private striated 
not to be erected or 
constructed over 
drains or water works 
without permission. 


Right of user of 
property for 
aqueducts, lines etc. 


cause to be made any connection or communication with any 
drain referred to in section 194 or any water- works, constructed 
or maintained by or vested in the Corporation. 

206. (1) without the written permission of the Commissioner 
no railway or private street, shall be constructed and no 
building, wall, fence or other structure shall be erected on any 
municipal drain or on any water-works constructed or 
maintained by or vested in, the Corporation. 

(2) If any railway or private street be constructed or any 
building, wall, fence or structure erected on any drain or water 
works as aforesaid without the written pennission, the 
Commissioner may remove or otherwise deal with the same as 
he may think lit. 

(3) The expenses incurred by the Commissioner in so doing 
shall be paid by the owner of the private street or of the 
building, fence, wall or other structure or, as the case may be, 
by the railway administration or the person offending and shall 
be recoverable as an arrear of tax under this Act. 

207. (1) The Commissioner may place and maintain aqueducts, 
conduits and lines of mains or pipes or drains over, under, 
along or across any immovable property whether within or 
outside the limits of the Municipal area, if necessary through an 
agreement, and may at any time for the purposes of examining, 
repairing, altering or removing any aqueducts, conduits or lines 
of mains or pipes, or drains, after giving a reasonable notice of 
his intention so to do, enter on any property over, under, along, 
or across which the aqueducts, conduits or lines of mains or 
pipes or drains have been placed: 

Provided that the Corporation shall not acquire any right 
other than a right of user in the property over, under, alone or 
across which any aqueduct, conduit or line of mains or pipes, or 
drain is placed. 

(2) The powers conferred by sub-section (1) shall not be 
exercisable in respect of any property vasted in the Government 
or under the control or management of the Government or 
railway administration or vested in any local authority save 
with the pennission of the Government or railway 
administration or vested in any local authority save with the 
pennission of the Government or railway administration or the 
local authority, as the case may be, and in accordance with any 
bye-laws made in this behalf: 

Provided that the Commissioner may, without such 
permission, repair, renew or amend any existing works of 
which the character or position is not to be altered if such 
repair, renewal or amendment is urgently necessary in order to 
maintain without interruption other supply of water, drainage or 


Power of owner of 
premises to place 
pipes and drains 
through land 
belonging to other 
Persons. 


disposal of sewage or is such that delay would be dangerous to 
health, human life or property. 

(3) In the exercise of the powers conferred upon him by 
this section, the Commissioner shall cause as little damage and 
inconvenience as may be possible and shall make full 
compensation for any damage or inconvenience caused by him. 
208. (1) If it appears to the Commissioner that the only or most 
convenient means of water supply to and drainage of any 
premises is by placing or carrying any pipe or drain over, 
under, along or across the immovable property of another 
person, the Commissioner may, by order in writing authorise 
the owner of the premises to place or carry such pipe or drain 
over, under, along or across such immovable property: 

Provided that before making any such order the 
Commissioner shall give to the owner of the immovable 
property a reasonable opportunity of showing cause within such 
time as may by prescribed by bye-laws made in this behalf as to 
why the order should not be made: 

Provided further that the owner of the premises shall not 
acquire any right other than a right of user in the property over, 
under along or across which any such pipe or drain is placed or 
carried. 

(2) Upon the making of an order under sub-section (1) 
the owner of the immovable property a reasonable notice of his 
intention so to do, enter upon the immovable property with 
assistants and workmen at any time between sunrise and sunset 
for the purpose of placing a pipe or drain over, under, along or 
across such immovable property or for the purpose of repairing 
the same. 

(3) In placing or carrying a pipe or drain under this 
section, as little damage as possible shall be done to the 
immovable property and the owner of the premises shall- 

(a) cause the pipe or drain to be placed or carried with the 
least practicable delay; 

(b) fill in reinstate and make good at his own cost and 
with the least practicable delay and land opened, 
broken up or removed for the purpose of placing or 
carrying such pipe or drain; and 

(c) pay compensation to the owner of the immovable 
property and to any other person who sustains damage 
by reason of the placing or carrying of such pipe or 
drain. 

(4) If the owner of the immovable property, over, under, 
along or across which a pipe or drain has been placed or carried 
under this section while such immovable property was not built 
upon, desires to erect any building on such property, the 


Railway 

administration be 
informed in certain 
cases. 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
execute work after 
giving notice to the 
person liable to do so. 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
affix shafts etc. for 
ventilation of drain or 
cesspool. 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
examine and test 
drain etc. believed to 
be defective. 


Commissioner shall by notice in writing, require the owner of 
the premises to close, remove or divert the pipe or drain in such 
manner as shall be approved by him and to fill in, reinstate and 
make good the immovable property as if the pipe or drain had 
not been placed or carried over, under, along or across the 
same: 

Provided that no such requisition shall be made unless 
in the opinion of the Commissioner it is necessary or expedient 
for the construction of the proposed building or the safe 
enjoyment thereof that the pipe or drain should be closed, 
removed or diverted. 

209. If the Corporation desires to place or carry any pipe or 
drain or do any other work connected with the water-supply or 
drainage across any railway line, it shall inform the railway 
administration who may execute the same at the cost of the 
Corporation. 

210. (1) When under the provisions of this Chapter any person 
may be required or is liable to execute any work, the 
Commissioner may, in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act, and of any bye-law made in this behalf, cause such work to 
be executed after giving such person an opportunity of 
executing the same within such time as may be specified by 
him for this purpose. 

(2) The expenses incurred or likely to be incurred by the 
Commissioner in the execution of any work specified under 
sub-section (1), shall be payable by the said person and the 
expenses incurred by the Commissioner in connection with the 
main tenancy of such work or the enjoyment of amenities and 
conveniences rendered possible by such work, shall be payable 
by the person or persons enjoying such amenities and 
conveniences. 

(3) The expenses referred to in sub-section (2), shall be 
recoverable from the person or persons liable therefore as an 
arrear of tax under this Act. 

211. For the purpose of ventilating any drain or cesspool, 
whether vested in the Corporation or not, the Commissioner 
may, in accordance with bye-laws made in this behalf, erect 
upon any premises or affix to the outside of any building or to 
any tree any such shaft or pipe as may appear to him to be 
necessary. 

212. (1) Where it appears to the Commissioner that there are 
reasonable grounds for believing that a private drain or 
cesspool is in such condition as to be prejudicial to health or a 
nuisance or that a private drain communicating directly or 
indirectly to health or a nuisance or that a private drain 
communicating directly or indirectly with a municipal drain, is 


Employment of 
Government agencies 
for repairs, etc. 


Work to be done by 
licensed plumber. 


so defective as to admit sub-soil water, he may examine its 
condition and for that purposes may apply any test other than a 
test of water under pressure, and if he deems it necessary, open 
the ground. 

(2) If on examination the drain or cesspool is found to be in 
proper condition, the Commissioner shall, as soon as possible, 
reinstate any ground which has been opened by him and make 
good any damage done by him. 

213. The Government may, for reasons to be recorded, direct 
that any specified work, repair, renewal or replacement which 
is to be undertaken by or for the Corporation under this 
Chapter, shall be carried out on behalf of the Corporation by the 
Government and the Corporation shall pay the charges 
therefore at the rate and subject to the terms for the time being 
applicable in the case of works constructed by the Government 
on behalf of a local authority. 

214. (1) No person other than a licensed plumber, shall execute 
any work described in this Chapter and no person shall permit 
any such work to be executed except by a licensed plumber: 

Provided that if, in the opinion of the Commissioner, the 
work is of a trivial nature, he may grant pennission in writing 
for the execution of such work by a person other than a licensed 
plumber. 

(2) Every person who employs licensed plumber to execute 
any work, shall, when so required, furnish to the Commissioner 
the name of such plumber. 

(3) When any work is executed except in accordance with 
the provisions of sub-section (1), such work shall be liable to be 
dismantled at the discretion of the Commissioner without 
prejudice to the right of the Corporation to prosecute under this 
Act the person at whose instance such work has been executed. 

(4) The Corporation may make bye-laws for the guidance of 
licensed plumbers and a copy of all such bye-laws shall be 
attached to every licence granted to a plumber by the 
Corporation. 

(5) The Corporation may, from time to time, prescribe the 
charges to be paid to licensed plumbers for any work done by 
them under or for any of the purposes of this Chapter. 

(6) No licensed plumber shall, for any work referred to in 
sub-section (5) demand or receive more than the charges 
prescribed therefore, under that sub-section, 

(7) The Corporation shall make bye-laws providing for- 

(a) the exercise of adequate control on all licensed 
plumbers; 

(b) the inspection of all works carried out by them; and 

(c) the hearing and disposal of complaints made by the 


Prohibition of certain 
acts. 


owners or occupiers of premises with regard to the 
quality of work done, material used, delay in execution 
of work, and the charges made, by a licensed plumber. 

(8) No licensed plumber shall contravene any of the bye-laws 
made under this section or execute carelessly or negligently any 
work under this Act or make use of bad materials, appliances or 
fittings. 

(9) If any licensed plumber contravenes sub-section (8), his 
licence may be suspended or cancelled whether he is 
prosecuted under this Act or not. 

215. (1) No person shall- 

(a) willfully, obstruct any person acting, under the 
authority of the Corporation or the Commissioner, in 
setting out the lines of any works or pull up or remove 
any pillar, post or stake fixed in the ground for the 
purpose of setting out lines of such work or deface or 
destroy and works made for the same purpose; or 

(b) willfully or negligently break, injure, turn on, open, 
close, shout off or otherwise interfere with any lock, 
cock, valve, pipe, meter or other work or apparatus 
belonging to the Corporation; or 

(c) unlawfully obstruct the flow of, or flush, draw off, or 
divert, or take water from any water works belonging to 
the Corporation or any water course by which any such 
water is supplied; or 

(d) unlawfully obstruct the flow of, or flush, draw off, or 
divert, or take sewage from any sewage work belonging 
to the Corporation or break or damage any electrical 
transmission line maintained by the Corporation; or 

(e) obstruct any office or other employee of the 
Corporation in the discharge of his duties under this 
Chapter or refuse or willfully neglect to furnish him 
with the means necessary or the making of any entry, 
inspection, examination or inquiry there under in 
relation to any water or sewage work; 

(f) bathe in, at or upon any water work or wash or throw or 
cause to enter therein any animal, or throw any rubbish, 
dirt, filth into any water work or wash or clean therein 
any cloth, wool or leather or the skin of any animal or 
cause the water of any sink or drain or any steam- 
engine or boiler or any polluted water to turn or be 
brought into any water-work, or do any other act 
whereby the water in any water-work is fouled or likely 
to be fouled. 

(2) Nothing in clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall apply to a 
consumer closing the stopcock fixed on the service pipe 


Vesting of public 
streets in Corporation. 


Functions of 
Commissioner in 
respect of public 
streets. 


Disposal of land 
forming site of public 
streets permanently 
closed. 

Power to make new 
public streets. 


Minimum width of 
new public streets. 


supplying water to his premises so long as he has obtained the 
consent of any other consumer whose supply will be affected 
thereby. 

CHAPTER-XIII 

STREETS 

216. (1) All streets within the Municipal area which are or at 
any time have become public streets, and the pavements, stones 
and other materials thereof, shall vest in the Corporation. 

(2) All public streets vesting in the Corporation shall be 
under the control of the Commissioner and shall be maintained, 
controlled and regulated by him in accordance with the bye- 
laws made in this behalf. 

217. (1) The Commissioner shall, from time to time cause all 
public streets vested in the Corporation to be leveled, metal led 
or paved, channeled, altered or repaired and may widen, extend 
or otherwise improve, any such street or cause the soil thereof 
to be raised, lowered or altered or may place and keep in repair 
fences and posts for the safety of foot-passengers: 

Provided that no widening, extension or other improvement 
of a public street the aggregate cost of which will exceed five 
thousand rupees, shall be undertaken by the Commissioner 
except with the previous sanction of the Corporation. 

(2) With the previous sanction of the Corporation, the 
Commissioner may permanently close the whole or any part of 
public street: 

Provided that before according such sanction the 
Corporation shall, by notice published in the manner specified 
by bye-laws, give reasonable opportunity to the residents likely 
to be affected by such closure to make suggestions or 
objections with respect to such closure and shall consider all 
such suggestions or objections, which may be made, within one 
month from the date of the publication of the said notice. 

218. Whenever any public street or a part thereof is 
pennanently closed under sub-section (2) of section 217 the site 
of such street or of the portion thereof may be disposed of as 
land vesting in the Corporation. 

219. The Commissioner may, at any time with the previous 
sanction of the Corporation- 

(a) lay out and make new public streets; 

(b) construct bridges and sub-ways; 

(c) turn or divert any existing public streets; and 

(d) lay down and detennine the position and direction of a 
street or streets in any part of the Municipal area 
notwithstanding that no proposal for the erection of any 
building in the vicinity has been received. 

220. The Commissioner shall, from time to time, with the 

sjnnptinn nf thp Pnrnnrntinn snprifv thp minimum wirltti nf 


Power to prohibit use 
of public street for 
certain kinds of 
traffic. 


Power to acquire land 
and buildings for 
public streets and for 
public parking places. 


Defining regular lines 
of streets. 


sanction of the Corporation, specify the minimum width of 
different classes of new public streets according to the nature of 
the traffic likely to be carried thereon and the streets with which 
they join at one or both ends, the localities in which they are 
situated, the heights up to which buildings abutting thereon may 
be erected and other similar consideration. 

221. (1) The Commissioner may- 

(a) prohibit vehicular traffic in any public street or any 
portion thereof so as to prevent danger, obstruction or 
inconvenience to the public or to ensure quietness in 
any locality: 

(b) prohibit in respect of all public streets or any particular 
public streets, the transit of any vehicle of such form, 
construction, weight or size or laden with such heavy or 
unwieldy objects as may be likely to cause injury to the 
roadways or any construction thereon, except under 
such conditions as to time, mode of the traction or 
locomotion, use of appliances for the protection of 
roadways, number of lights and assistants and other 
general precautions and upon the payment of such 
charges as may be specified by the Commissioner 
generally or specially in each case; 

(c) prohibit access to premises from any particular public 
street carrying high speed vehicular traffic; 

(2) Notices of such prohibition as are imposed under sub- 
section (1) shall be posed in conspicuous places at or near both 
ends of public streets or portions thereof to which they relate, 
unless such prohibition applied generally to all public streets. 

222. Subjects to the provisions contained in Chapter X the 
Commissioner may- 

(a) acquire any land required for the purpose of opening, 
widening, extending or otherwise improving any public 
street or of making any new public street and building 
standing upon such land; 

(b) acquire in relation to any such land or building, all such 
land with buildings, if any thereon as the Corporation 
may think expedient to acquire outside the regular line or 
the intended regular line, of such street. 

Explanation.- When any land is required for a new street or for 
the improvement of an existing, street, the Government may on 
the request of the Corporation proceed to acquire, in addition to 
the land to be occupied by the street, the land necessary for the 
sites of the buildings to be erected on both sides of the street, 
and such land shall be deemed to be required for the purposes 
of this Act. 

223. (1) The Commissioner may define a line on one or both 

sirlps nf an v nnhlir strppt in arrnrrlanrp with thp hvp-laws marlp 


Setting back building 
to regular line of 
street. 


Compulsory setting 
back of building to 
regular line of streets. 


sides of any public street in accordance with the bye-laws made 
in this behalf and may with the previous sanction of the 
Corporation rc-definc at any time any such regular line: 

Provided further that the regular line of any public street 
operative under any law in force in any part of the municipal 
area immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall 
be deemed to be a line defined by the Commissioner under this 
sub-section. 

(2) The line for the time being defined or re-defined shall be 
called the regular line of street. 

(3) No person shall construct or reconstruct any building or a 
portion thereof or any boundary wall or other structure 
whatsoever within the regular line of a street except with the 
written pennission of the Commissioner: 

Provided that if within 60 days after the receipt of 
application from any person for pennission to construct or 
reconstruct a boundary wall or a portion thereof, the 
Commissioner fails to take steps to acquire the land within the 
regular line of the street in accordance with section 226 then 
that person may, subject to any other provisions of this Act and 
the bye-laws made there under, proceed with the work of 
construction or reconstruction of such boundary wall or portion 
thereof. 

224. (1) If any part of a building abutting on a public street is 
within the regular line of that street, the Government on the 
request of the Commissioner, may, whenever it is proposed to 
repair, remove, construct or re-construct or make any additions 
to, or structural alterations of any portion of such building 
which is within the regular line of the street by any order which 
he issues concerning the additions to rebuilding, construction, 
repair or alterations of such building, require such building to 
be set back to the regular line of the street. 

(1) When any building or any part thereof within the 
regular line of a public street falls down or is burnt down or is, 
whether by the order of the Commissioner or otherwise, taken 
down, the Government on the request of the Commissioner may 
acquire the portion of the land within the regular line of the 
street therefore occupied by the said building under the 
provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. 

(3) Land acquired under this section shall be deemed to be a 
part of the public street and shall vest in the Corporation. 

225. Where any building or any part thereof is within the 
regular line of a public street and in the opinion of the 
Commissioner it is necessary to set back the building or part 
thereof to the regular line of the street, he shall request the 
Government to acquire the building or any part thereof in 


Acquisition of open 
land and land 
occupied by platforms 
etc. within the regular 
line of streets. 


Acquisition of 
remaining part of 
building and land 
after their portions 
within regular line of 
street have been 
acquired 


Setting forward of 
buildings to regular 
line of street. 


Payment of 
compensation. 


Owner’s obligation 
when dealing with 
land or building sites. 


Day-out plans. 


accordance with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894. 

226. If any land, whether open or enclosed, not vesting in the 
Corporation and not occupied by any building is within the 
regular line of a public street of if a platfonn, verandah , step 
compound wall, hedge or fence or some other structure external 
to a building abutting on a public street or a portion of such 
platform, verandah, step, compound wall, hedge and fence or 
other structure is within the regular line of such street, the 
Commissioner shall request the Government to acquire the 
same under the provisions of Land Acquisition Act, 1894. 

227. (1) Where a land or building is partly within the regular 
line of a public street and the Commissioner is satisfied that the 
land remaining after the excision of the portion within the said 
line will not be suitable of fit for any beneficial use, he may, at 
the request of the owner, move to the Government to acquire 
such land in addition to the land within the said line and such 
surplus land shall be deemed to be a part of the public street 
and shall vest in the Corporation. 

(2) Such surplus land may thereafter be utilized for the 
purpose of setting forward a building under section 228. 

228. The Commissioner may, upon such terms, as he thinks fit, 
allow any building to be set forward for the purpose of 
improving the regular line of a public street and may, with the 
sanction of the Corporation by notice require any building to be 
so set forward in the case of reconstruction thereof or of a new 
construction. 

Explanation. - For the purpose of this section a wall 
separating any premises from a public street shall be deemed to 
be a building and it shall be deemed a sufficient compliance 
with permission, or requisition to set forward a building to the 
regular line of a street if a wall of such material and dimensions 
as are approved by the Commissioner is erected along the said 
line. 

229. The compensation detennine for the land acquired for a 
public street under the provisions of sections 224, 225, 226 and 
227 shall be made by the Corporation in accordance with the 
provisions contained in the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. 

230. If the owner of any land utilizes, sells, leases out or 
otherwise disposes of such land for the construction of building 
thereon, he shall lay down and make a street or streets giving 
access to the plots into which the land may be divided and 
connecting with an existing public or private street. 

231. (1) Before utilizing, selling or otherwise dealing with any 
land under section 230, the owner thereof shall send to the 
Commissioner a written application with a lay-out plan of the 


land showing the following particulars, namely:- 

(a) the plots into which the land is proposed to be divided 
for the erection of building thereon and the purpose 
or purposes for which such buildings are to be used; 

(b) the reservation or allotment of any site for any street, 
open space, park, recreation ground, school, market 
or any public purpose; 

(c) the intended level direction and width of streets or 
streets; 

(d) the regular line of street or streets; and 

(e) the arrangements to be made for leveling, paving, 
metal ling flagging, channeling, skewering, draining, 
conserving and lighting street or streets. 

(2) The provisions of this Act and the bye-laws made there 
under as to width of the public streets and the height of building 
abutting thereon, shall apply in the case of streets referred to in 
sub-section (1) and al the particulars referred to in that sub- 
section shall be subject to the sanction of the Corporation. 

(3) Within sixty days after the receipt of any application 
under sub-sections (1) the Corporation shall either accord 
sanction to the lay-out plan on such conditions as it may think 
fit or ask for further information with respect to it. 

(4) Such sanction shall be refused- 

(a) if the particulars shown in the lay-out plan would 
conflict with any arrangement which have been made 
or which are in the opinion of the Corporation likely 
to be made for carrying out any general scheme of 
development of the Municipal area whether contained 
in the master plan or a zonal development plan 
prepared for the Municipal area or not; or 

(b) if the said lay-out plan does not conform to the 
provisions of this Act, and bye-laws made there 
under; or 

(c) if any street proposed in the plan is not designed so as 
to connect at one and with a street which is already 
open. 

(5) No person shall utilize, sell or otherwise deal with any land 
or lay-out or make any new street without or otherwise than in 
conformity with the orders of the Corporation and further 
information is asked for, no step shall be taken to utilize, sell or 
otherwise deal with the land or to lay-out or make the street 
until orders have been passed upon receipt of such infonnation: 
Provided that the passing of such order shall not be in any 
case delayed for more than sixty days after the Corporation has 
received the information which it considers necessary to enable 
it to deal with the said application. 


Alteration or 
demolition of street 
made in breach of 
section 231. 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
order work to be 
carried out or to carry 
it out himself in 
default. 


Declaration of public 
streets. 


(6) The lay-out plan referred to earlier in this section shall, 
if so required by the Corporation be prepared by a licensed 
town planner. 

(7) The provisions of this section shall not be used for any 
piece of land the size of which exceeds 1000 meters. 

232 (1) If any person lays-out or makes any street referred to in 
section 231 without or otherwise than in conformity with the 
orders of the Corporation, the Commissioner may, whether or 
not the offender, be prosecuted under this Act by notice, - 

(a) require the offender to show cause by a written 
statement signed by him and sent to Commissioner on or 
before such date as may be specified in the notice, why 
such street should not be demolished ; or 

(b) require the offender to appear before the Commissioner 
whether personally or by a duly authorised agent or on 
such day and at such time and place as may be specified 
in the notice and show cause as aforesaid. 

(2) If any person on whom such notice is served fails to show 
cause to the satisfaction of the Commissioner may pass an order 
directing the alteration or demolition of such street. 

(3) Nothing in sections 230, 231 and this section shall apply 
to any land to which the provisions of the Haryana 
Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 
(Haryana Act No. 8 of 1975) apply. 

233. (1) If any private street or part thereof is not leveled, 
paved, medalled, flagged, channeled, severed, drained, 
conserved or lighted to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, he 
may by notice require the owners of such street or part and the 
owners work which in his opinion may be necessary and within 
such time as may be specified in such notice. 

(2) If such work is not carried out within the time specified 
in the notice, the Commissioner may, if he thinks fit, execute it 
and the expenses incurred shall be paid by the owners referred 
to in sub-section (1) in such proportion as may be determined 
by the Commissioner and shall be recoverable from them as an 
arrears of tax under this Act. 

234. (1) any street has been leveled, paved, metalled, flagged, 
channeled, sewered, drained, conserved and lighted under the 
provisions of section 233 the Commissioner may, and on the 
requisition of the majority of the owner referred to in sub- 
section (1) of that section shall declare such a street to be a 
public street and thereupon the street shall vest in the 
Corporation. 

(2) The Commissioner may, at any time, by notice fixed up 
in any street or part thereof not maintainable by the 
Corporation, give intimation of his intention to declare the same 


Prohibition of 
projection upon 
streets etc. 


Projections over 
streets may be 
permitted in certain 
cases. 


a public street and unless with one month next after such notice 
has been so put up, the owner or any one of the several owners 
of such street or such part of a street lodge objection thereto at 
the Corporation office, the Commissioner, may, by notice in 
writing, put up in such street of such part, declare the same to 
be a public street vested in the Corporation. 

235. (1) Except as provided in section 236, no person shall 
erect, set-up, add to, or place against or in front of any premises 
any structure or fixture which will,- 

(a) overhang, jut or project into, or in any way encroach 
upon and obstruct in any way the safe or convenient 
passage of the public along any street, or 

(b) jut or project into or encroach upon any drain or open 
channel in any street so as in any way to interfere with 
the use or proper working so such drain or channel or to 
impede the inspection or cleansing thereof. 

(2) The Commissioner may by notice require the owner or 
occupier of any premises to remove or to take such other action 
as the may direct in relation to any structure or fixture which 
has been erected, set-up, added to or placed against, or in front 
of, the said premises in contravention of this section. 

(3) If the occupier of the said premises removes or alters any 
structure or fixture in accordance with such notice, he shall be 
entitled, unless the structure or fixture was erected, set-up or 
placed by himself, to credit into account with the owner of the 
premises for all reasonable expenses incurred by him in 
complying with the notice. 

236. (1) The Commissioner may give a written pennission, on 
such terms and on payment of such fee as he in each case thinks 
fit, to the owner or occupier of the building or any street, - 

(a) to erect an arcade, over such street or any portion thereof; 
or 

(b) to put up a verandah, balcony, arch, connecting passage, 
sunshade, whether frame, canopy, a awning or other such 
structure of thing projecting from any story over or 
across any street or portion thereof; 

Provided that no permission shall be given by the 
Commissioner for the erection of an arcade in any public street 
in which construction of an arcade has not been generally 
sanctioned by the Corporation 

(2) The Commissioner may at any time by notice require the 
owner or occupier of any building to remove a verandah, 
balcony, sunshade, weather frame or the like put up in 
accordance with the provisions of this Act and such owner or 
occupier shall be bound to take action accordingly but shall be 
entitled to compensation for the loss caused to him by such 


Ground floor doors, 
etc. not to open out 
wards on streets. 


Prohibition of 
structures, fixtures or 
deposit things in 
streets. 


Special provision 
regarding streets 
belonging to 
Government. 


removal and the cost incurred thereon. 

237. The Commissioner may at any time by notice require the 
owner of any premises on the ground floor of which any door, 
gate, bar or window opens outwards upon a street or upon any 
land required for the improvement of a street in such manner as 
in the opinion of the Commissioner is likely to obstruct the safe 
or convenient passage of the public along such street, to have 
the said door, gate, bar or window altered so as not to open out 
wards. 

238. (1) No person shall, except with the pennission of the 
Commissioner granted in this behalf, erect or set-up any wall, 
fence, rail, post, step, booth or other structure whether fixed or 
movable or whether of a permanent or temporary nature, or any 
fixture in or upon any street or upon or over any open channel, 
drain, well or tank in any street so as to form an obstruction to 
or an encroachment upon, of projection over, or to occupy any 
portion of such street, channel, drain, well or tank. 

(2) No person shall, except with the permission of the 
Commissioner and on payment of such fee as he in each case 
thinks fit, place or deposit upon any street, or upon any open 
channel, drain or well in any street or upon any public place 
any stall, chair, bench, box, ladder, bale or other thing 
whatsoever so as to form an obstruction thereto or 
encroachment thereon. 

(3) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply to any erection or 
thing to which clause © of sub-section (1) of section 243 
applies and nothing in sub-section (2) shall apply to building 
materials. 

239. Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 228, 235, 
236 or in clause (5) of part C of section 392 and subject to any 
general or special order that the Government may make in this 
behalf, if any street is vested in the Government, - 

(a) the Commissioner shall not, in respect of such street 
grant permission to do any act the doing of which 
without his written permission would contravene the 
provisions of section 235 or section 236 or allow any 
building to be set forward under the provision of section 
228 except with the sanction of the Government which 
may be given in respect of a class of cases generally or 
in respect of a particular case; 

(b) the Commissioner shall, if so required by the 
Government, exercise the power conferred upon him by 
sections 228, 235, 236 or clause (5) of part C of section 
392 or any by-law made in exercise of the powers 
conferred by the aforesaid clause (5) in respect of 
encroachment or overhanging structure on or over such 


Power to remove 
anything deposited or 
exposed for sale in 
contravention of this 
Act. 


Prohibition of 
tethering of animals 
and milking of cattle. 


Precautions during 
repair of streets etc. 


Streets not to be 
opened or broken up 
and building materials 
not be deposited 


street or any materials, goods or articles of merchandise 
deposited on such street. 

240. The Commissioner may, without notice, cause to be 
removed- 

(a) any stall, chair, bench, box, ladder, bale or other thing 
whatsoever placed, deposited, projected, attached or 
suspended in, upon from or to any place in 
contravention of this Act; 

(b) any article whatsoever hawked or exposed for sale on 
any public place in contravention of this Act and any 
vehicle, package, box or any other thing in or on which 
such article is placed. 

241. (1) No person shall tether any animal or cause or permit 
the same to be tethered in any public street. 

(2) No person shall milk or cause or permit to be milked 
any cow or buffalo in any street. 

(3) Any animal tethered or any cow or any buffalo found 
being milked as aforesaid in any street may be removed by the 
Commissioner or any Corporation Officer or employee and be 
impounded and dealt with under the provisions of the cattle 
Trespass Act; 1871 (Central Act 1 of 1871). 

242. (1) The Commissioner shall, so far as is practicable 
during the construction or repair of any public street, or any 
municipal drain or any premises vested in the Corporation.- 

(a) cause the same to be fenced and guarded; 

(b) take proper precautions against accident by shoring up 
and protecting the adjoining buildings; 

(c) cause such bars, chains or posts to be fixed across or in 
any street in which any such work of construction or 
repair is under execution as are necessary in order to 
prevent the passage of vehicles or animals and avert 
danger. 

(2) The Commissioner shall cause such street, drain or 
premises to be sufficiently lighted or guarded during night 
while under construction or repair. 

(3) The Commissioner shall, with all reasonable speed, cause 
the said work to be completed, the ground to be filled in the 
said street, drain or premises to be repaired and the rubbish 
occasioned thereby to be removed. 

(4) No person shall, without the permission of the 
Commissioner or other lawful authority, remove any bar, chain, 
post or shoring, timber or remove or extinguish any light set-up 
under this section. 

243. (1) No person other than the Commissioner or a 
Corporation Officer or other Corporation employee shall, 
without the written permission of the Commissioner- 


therein without 
permission. 


Disposal of things 
removed under this 
chapter. 


Naming and 
numbering of streets. 


(a) open, break up, displace, take up or make any alteration 
in, or cause any injury to the soil or payment or any wall, 
fence, post, chain or other material or thing forming part 
of any street; or 

(b) deposit any building material in any street; or 

(c) set up in any street any scaffold or any temporary 
erection for the purpose of any work whatever, or any 
posts, bars, rolls, boards or other things by way of an 
enclosure, for the purpose of making mortar or 
depositing bricks, lime, rubbish or other materials. 

(2) Any permission granted under clause (b) or clause (c) of 
sub-section (1) shall be tenninable at the discretion of the 
Commissioner on his giving not less than twenty-four hours 
notice of such tennination to the person to whom such 
pennission was granted. 

(3) The Commissioner may, without notice, cause to be 
removed any of the things referred to in clause (b) or clause (c) 
sub-section (1) which has been deposited or set up in any street 
without the pennission specified in that sub-section or which 
having been deposited or set up with permission has not been 
removed within the period specified in the notice issued under 
sub-section (2): 

Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to cases 
under clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) in which 
application for permission has been made with such fee as may 
be prescribed by the Commissioner in this behalf but no reply 
has been sent to the applicant within seven days from the date 
of the application. 

244. (1) Any of the things caused to be removed by the 
Commissioner under this Chapter shall, unless the owner 
thereof turns up to take back such things and pays to the 
Commissioner the charges for the removal and storage of such 
things, be disposed of by public auction or in such other manner 
and within such time as the Commissioner thinks fit. 

(2) The charges for removal and storage of the things sold 
under sub-section (1) shall be paid out of the proceeds of the 
sale thereof and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the owner 
of the things sold on a claim being made therefore within a 
period of two years from the date of sale, and if no such claim 
is made with the said period, shall be credited to the 
Corporation. 

245. (1) The Commissioner may- 

(a) with the sanction of the Corporation, detennine the name 
or number by which any street or public place vested in 
the Corporation shall be know; 

(b) Cause to be put up or painted at a conspicuous part of 


Commissioner to take 
steps for repairing or 
enclosing places. 


Measures for lighting. 


Prohibition of 
removal, etc. of 
lamps. 


any building, wall or place, at or near each end, corner or 
entrance of such street or on some convenient part of 
such street, the name or number by which it is to be 
known; 

(c) Cause to be put up or painted on boards of suitable size 
the name of any public place vested in the Corporation; 

(d) Determine the number or sub-number by which any 
premises or part of such premises shall be known and 
cause such number or sub-number to be fixed to the side 
or outer door of such premises or to some place at the 
entrance of the enclosure thereof. 

(2) No person shall destroy, remove, deface or in any way 
injure or alter such name or number or sub-number or put up or 
paint any name or number or sub-number different from that 
put up or painted by order of the Commissioner. 

246. (1) If any place is, in the opinion of the Commissioner, for 
want of sufficient repair or protection or enclosure, or owning 
to some work being carried on there upon, dangerous or 
causing inconvenience to passengers along a street or to other 
persons including the owner or occupier of the said place, who 
have legal access thereto or to the neighborhood thereof, the 
Commissioner may by notice in writing require the owner or 
occupier of such place to repair, protect or enclose the same or 
take such other steps as shall appear to the Commissioner 
necessary in order to prevent the danger or inconvenience 
arising there from. 

(2) The Commissioner may before giving any such notice or 
before the period of any such notice has expired, take such 
temporary measures as he thinks fit to prevent the danger or 
inconvenience arising there from; and any expense incurred by 
the Commissioner in taking such temporary measures shall be 
recoverable from the owner or occupier of the place as an arrear 
of tax under this Act. 

247. The Commissioner shall- 

(a) take measures for lighting in a suitable manner all such 
public streets and public places as may be specified by 
the Corporation; 

(b) procure, erect and maintain such number of lamps, lamp 
posts and other appurtenances as my be necessary for the 
said purpose; 

(c) cause such lamps to be lighted by means of oil, electricity 
or such other light as the Corporation may determine. 

248. (1) No person shall, without lawful authority, take away 
willfully or negligently break or throw down or damage- 

(a) any lamp or any appurtenance of any lamp or lamp 
posts or lamp iron set-up in any public street or any 


public place; 

(b) any electric wire for lighting such lamp; 

(c) any post, pole, standard stay, strut, bracket or other 
contrivance for carrying, suspending or supporting any 
electric wire or lamp. 

(2) No person shah willfully or negligently extinguish the 
light of any lamp set-up in any public street or any public place. 

(3) If any person willfully or through negligence or accident 
breaks or causes any damage to any of the things described in 
sub-section (1), he shah in addition to any penalty to which he 
may be subjected to under this Act, pay the expenses of 
repairing the damage so done by him. 

CHAPTER-XIV 
BUILDING REGULATIONS 

Definitions. 249. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise, requires, the 

expression “to erect buildings” means- 

(a) to erect a new building on any site whether previously 
built upon or not; 

(b) to re-erect- 

i) any building of which more than one-half of 
the cubical contents above the level of the 
plinth have been pulled down burnt or 
destroyed; or 

ii) any building of which more than one-half of 
the superficial area of the external walls 
above the level of the plinth has been pulled 
down; or 

iii) any frame building of which more than half 
of the number of the posts of beams in the 
external walls have been pulled down; 

(c) to convert into a dwelling house any building or any part 
of a building not originally constructed for human 
habitation or, if originally so constructed, subsequently 
appropriated for any other purpose; 

(d) to covert into more than one dwelling house a building 
originally constructed as one dwelling house only; 

(e) to convert into a place of religious worship or into sacred 
building any place or building not originally constructed 
for such purpose; 

(f) to roof or cover an open space between walls or building 
to the extent of the structure which is fonned by the 
roofing or covering of such space; 

(g) to convert two or more tenements in a building into 
greater or lesser number; 

(h) to convert into a stall, shop, warehouse or god own, 
stable, factory or grange any building not originally 


Prohibition of 
erection of building 
with out sanction. 


Erection of b uilding. 


Application for 
addiction to, or 
repairs of building. 


constructed for use as such or which was not so used 
before the change; 

(1) to convert a building which when originally constructed 
was legally exempt from the operations of any building 
regulations contained in this Act or in any bye-laws 
made there under or in any other law, into a building 
which, had it been originally erected in its converted 
form, would have been subject to such building 
regulations; 

(j) to convert into or use as a dwelling house any building 
which has been discontinued as or appropriated for any 
purpose other than a dwelling house. 

250. No person shall erect or commence to erect any building 
or execute any of the works specified in section 252 except 
with the previous sanction of the Commissioner, nor otherwise 
than in accordance with the proving of this Chapter and of the 
bye-laws made under this Act in relation to the erection of 
buildings or execution of works. 

251. (1) Every person who intends to erect a building shall 
apply for sanction by giving notice in writing of his intention to 
the Commissioner in such form and containing such 
information as may be prescribed by bye-laws made in this 
behalf. 

(2) Every such notice shall be accompanied by such 
documents and plans as may be prescribed. 

252. (1) Every person who intends to execute any of the 
following works, namely:- 

(a) to make any addition to a building; 

(b) to make any alteration or repairs to a building involving 
the removal or re-erection of any external or partition 
wall thereof or of any wall which supports the roof 
thereof to an extent exceeding one half of such wall 
above the plinth level, such half to be measured in 
superficial meters; 

(c) to make any alteration or repairs to a frame building 
involving the removal or re-erection of more than one 
half of the posts in any wall which support the roof 
thereof to an extent exceeding one half of such wall 
above the plinth level, such half to be measured in 
superficial meters; 

(d) to make any alteration in a building involving- 

i) the sub-division of any room in such building 
so as to convert the same into two or more 
separate rooms; or 

ii) the conversion of any passage or space in such 
building into a room or rooms; 


Conditions of valid 
notice. 


Sanction or refusal of 
building or works. 


(e) to repair, remove, construct, reconstruct, or make any 
addition to or structural alteration in any portion of a 
building abutting on a street which stands within the 
regular line of such street; 

(f) to close permanently any door or window in an external 
wall; 

(g) to remove or reconstruct the principle staircase or to alter 
its position. 

Shall apply for sanction by giving notice in writing of his 
intention to the Commissioner in such form and containing 
such information as may be prescribed by bye-laws made in 
this behalf. 

(2) Every such notice shall be accompanied by such 
documents and plans as may be so prescribed. 

253. (1) A person giving the notice required by section 251 
shall specify the purpose for which it is intended to use the 
building to which such notice relates, and a person giving the 
notice required by section 252 shall specify whether the 
purpose for which the building is being used is proposed or 
likely to be changed by the execution of the proposed work. 

(2) No notice shall be valid until the information required 
under sub-section (1) and any further information and plans 
which may be required by bye-laws made in this behalf have 
been furnished to be satisfaction of the Commissioner along 
with the notice. 

254. (1) The Commissioner shall sanction the erection of a 
building or the execution of a work, unless such building or 
work would contravene any of the provisions of sub-section (2) 
of this section or of the provisions of section 258. 

(2) The grounds on which the sanction of a building or work 
may be refused shall be the following, namely:- 

(a) that the building or work, or the use of the site for the 
building or work or any of the particulars comprised in 
the site plan, ground plan, elevation section or 
specification would contravene the provisions of any 
made in this behalf or of any other law or of rule, bye- 
law or order made under such other law; 

(b) that notice for sanction does not contain the particulars 
or not prepared in the manner required under the bye- 
laws made in this behalf; 

(c) that any information or documents required by the 
Commissioner under this Act or any bye-laws made 
there under has or have not been duly furnished; 

(d) that in cases falling under section 230, lay out plans 
have not been sanctioned in accordance with section 
231; 


When building or 
work may be 
processed with. 


(e) that the building or work would be an encroachment on 
Government land or land vested in the Corporation; 

(f) that the site of the building or work does not about on a 
street or projected street and that there is no access to 
such building or work from any such street by a passage 
or pathway appertaining to such site; 

(g) that the building or work would be in contravention of 
any scheme sanctioned under resection 267; 

(h) that the building for habitation, does not provide for a 
flush or a water seal latrines. 

(3) The Commissioner shall communicate the sanction to the 
person who has given the notice, and where he refuses sanction 
on any of the grounds specified in sub-section (2) of this 
section or under section 258 he shall record a brief statement of 
his reasons for such refusal and communicate the refusal along 
with the reasons there fro to the person who has given the 
notice. 

(4) The sanction or refusal as aforesaid shall be 
communicated in such manner as may be specified in the bye- 
laws made in this behalf. 

255. (1) Where within a period of sixty days, after the receipt 
of any notice under section 25 1 or section 252 or of the further 
information, if any, required under section 253 the 
Commissioner does not refuse to sanction the building or work 
or upon refusal does not communicate the refusal to the person 
who has given the notice, the Commissioner shall be deemed to 
have accorded sanction to the building or work and person by 
whom the notice has been given shall be free to commence and 
proceed with the building or work in accordance with his 
intention as expressed in the notice and the documents and 
plans accompanying the same: 

Provided that if it appears to the Commissioner that the site 
of the proposed building or work is likely to be affected by any 
scheme of acquisition of land for any public purpose or by any 
proposed regular line of a public street or extension, 
improvement, widening or alteration of any street, the 
Commissioner may withhold sanction of the building or work 
for such period not exceeding three months as he deems fit and 
the period of sixty days shall be deemed to commence from the 
date of the expiry of the period for which the sanction has been 
with held. 

(2) Where a building or work is sanction or is deemed to 
have been sanctioned by the Commissioner under sub-section 
(1), the person who has given the notice shall be bound to erect 
the building or execute the work in accordance with such 
sanction but not so as to contravene any of the provisions of 


Sanction accorded 
under 

misrepresentation. 


Building at corners of 
streets. 


Provisions as to 
buildings and works 
on new side. 


this Act or any other law or of any be-law made there under. 

(3) If the Person or any one lawfully claiming under him 
does not commence the erection of the building or the 
execution of the work within one year of the date on which the 
building or the execution of the work within one year of the 
date on which the building or work is sanctioned or is deemed 
have been sanctioned, he shall have to give notice under section 
252 or, as the case may be under section 25 1 for fresh sanction 
of the building or the work and the provisions of this section 
shall apply in relation to such notice as they apply in relation to 
the original notice. 

(4) Before commencing the erection of a building or 
execution of a work within the period specified in sub-section 
(3), the person concerned shall give notice to the Commissioner 
of the proposed date of the commencement of the erection of 
the building or the execution of the work: 

Provided that if the commencement does not take place 
within seven days of the date so notified shall be deemed not 
have been given and a fresh notice shall be necessary in this 
behalf. 

256. If at any time after the sanction of any building or work 
has been accorded, the Commissioner is satisfied that such 
sanction was accorded in consequence of any material 
misrepresentation or fraudulent statement contained in the 
notice given or information furnished under sections 251, 252 
and 253 he may by order in writing, cancel for reasons to be 
recorded such sanction and any building or work commenced, 
erected, or done shall be deemed to have been commenced, 
erected or done without such sanction: 

Provided that before making any such order the 
Commissioner shall give reasonable opportunity to the person 
affected as to why such order should not be made. 

257. The Commissioner may require any building intended to 
be erected at the corner of two streets to be rounded off or 
splayed or cut off to such height and such extent as he may 
detennine, and may acquire such portion of the site at the 
corner as he may consider necessary for public convenience or 
amenity. 

258. (1) The erection of any building on either side of a new 
street may be refused by the Commissioner unless and until 
such new street has been leveled and wherever in the opinion of 
the Commissioner practicable, metalled or paved, drained, 
lighted and laid with a water main to his satisfaction. 

(2) The erection of any such building or the execution of 
any such work may be refused by the Commissioner if such 
building or any portion thereof or such work comes within the 


Period for completion 
of building or work. 


Prohibition against 
use of inflammable 
materials for 
buildings etc. without 
permission. 


Order of demolition 
and stoppage of 
building and works in 
certain cases and 
appeal. 


regular line of any street, the position and direction of which 
has been laid down by the Commissioner but which has not 
been actually constructed or if such building or any portion 
thereof or such work is in contravention of any building or any 
portion thereof or such work is in contravention of any building 
or any other scheme or plan prepared under this Act, or any 
other law for the time being in force. 

259. The Commissioner when sanctioning the erection of a 
building or execution of a work, shall specify a reasonable 
period after the commencement of the building or work within 
which the building or work is to be completed and if the 
building or work is not completed within the period so specified 
it shall not be continued thereafter without fresh sanction 
obtained in the manner hereinbefore provided, unless the 
Commissioner on application made, therefore, has allowed an 
extension of that period. 

260. In such areas as may be specified by bye-laws made in 
this behalf, no roof, verandah, panda or wall of a building or no 
shed or fence shall be constructed or reconstructed of cloth, 
grass, leaves, mats or other inflammable material except with 
the written pennission of the Commissioner shall any such roof, 
verandah, panda, wall, shed, fence constructed or reconstructed 
in any year be retained in subsequent year except with fresh 
pennission obtained in this behalf. 

261. (1) Where the erection of any work has been commenced, 
or is being carried on or has been completed without or 
contrary to the sanction referred to in section 254 or in 
contravention of any condition subject to which such sanction 
has been accorded or in contravention of any of the provisions 
of this Act, or bye-laws made there under, the Commissioner 
may in addition to any other action that may be taken under this 
Act, make an order directing that such erection or work shall be 
demolished by the person at whose instance the erection or 
work has been commenced or is being carried on or has been 
completed within such period (not being less than three days 
from the date on which copy of the order of demolition with a 
brief statement of the reasons therefore has been delivered to 
that person) as may be specified in the order of demolition: 

Provided that no order of demolition shall be made unless 
the person has been given by means of a notice served in such 
manner as the Commissioner may think fit, a reasonable 
opportunity of showing cause why such order should not be 
made: 

Provided further that where the erection or work has not been 
completed the Commissioner may by the same order or by a 
separate order, whether made at the time of the issue of the 


notice under the first proviso or at any other time, direct the 
person to stop the erection of work until the expiry of the period 
within which an appeal against the order of demolition, if made, 
may be preferred under sub section (2). 

(2) Any person aggrieved by an order of the Commissioner 
made under sub-section (1) may prefer an appeal against the 
order to the court of the District Judge of the Municipal area 
within the period specified in the order for the demolition of the 
erection or work to which it relates. 

(3) Where an appeal is preferred under sub-section (2) 
against an order of demolition the court of the [Divisional 
Commissioner] may stay the enforcement of that order on such 
terms, if any, and for such period, as it may think fit: 

Provided that where the erection of any building or execution 
of any work has not been completed at the time of the making 
of the order of demolition, no order staying the enforcement of 
the order of demolition shall be made by the Court of the 
’[Divisional Commissioner] unless security, sufficient in the 
opinion of the court, has been given by he appellant for not 
proceeding with such erection or work pending the disposal of 
the appeal. 

(4) Save as provided in this section no court shall entertain 
any suit, application or other proceeding for injunction or other 
relief against the Commissioner or restrain him from taking any 
action or making any order in pursuance of the provisions of 
this section. 

(5) Every order made by the Court of the '[Divisional 
Commissioner] on appeal and subject only to such order, the 
order of demolition made by the Commissioner shall be final 
and conclusive. 

(Where no appeal has been preferred against an order of 
demolition made by the Commissioner under sub-section (1) or 
where an order of demolition made by the Commissioner under 
that sub-section has been confirmed on appeal, whether with or 
without variation, the person against whom the order has been 
confirmed on appeal, whether with or without variation, the 
person against whom the order has been made shall comply 
with the order within the period specified therein or, as the case 
may be, within the period, if any fixed by the Court of the 
1 [Divisional Commissioner] on appeal, and on the failure of the 
person to comply with the order within such period, the 
Commissioner may himself cause the erection of the work to 
which the order relates to be demolished and the expenses of 
such demolition shall be recoverable from such person as an 
arrear of tax under this Act. 

Order of stoppage of 262. (1) Where the erection of any building or execution of any 

building or works in wnrV has hppn rntnmpnrprl nr is hpino rnrriprl nn ihut has nnt 


certain cases. 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
require alteration of 
work. 


work has been commenced or is being carried on (but has not 
been completed) without or contrary to the sanction referred to 
in section 254 or in contravention of any condition subject to 
which such sanction has been accorded or in contravention of 
any provisions of this Act or bye-laws made there under, the 
Commissioner may in addition to any other action that may be 
taken under this Act by order, require the person at whose 
instance the building or the work has been commenced or is 
being carried on, to stop the same forthwith. 

(2) If an order made by the Commissioner under section 261 
or under sub-section (1) of this section directing any person to 
stop the erection of any building or execution of any work is 
not complied with, the Commissioner may require any police 
officer to remove such person and all his assistants and 
workmen from the premises within such time as may be 
specified in the requisition and such police officer shall comply 
with the requisition accordingly. 

(3) After the requisition under sub-section (2) has been 
complied with, the Commissioner may, if he thinks fit, depute 
by a written order a police officer or a Corporation officer or 
other Corporation employee to watch the premises in order to 
ensure that the erection of the building or the execution of the 
work is not continued. 

(4) Where a police officer or a Corporation Officer or other 
Corporation employee has been deputed under sub-section (3) 
to watch the premises, the cost of such deputation shall be paid 
by the person at whose instance such erection or execution is 
being continued or to whom notice under sub-section (1) was 
given and shall be recoverable from such person as an arrear of 
tax under this Act. 

263. (1) The Commissioner may, at any time during the 

erection of any building or execution of any work or at any time 
within three months after the completion thereof, by a written 
notice specify any matter in respect of which such erection or 
execution is without or contrary to the sanction referred to in 
section 254 or is in contravention of any condition of such 
sanction or any of the provisions of this Act or any bye-laws 
made there under and require the person who gave the notice 
under section 25 1 or section 252 or the owner of such building 
or work either- 

(a) to make such alterations as may be specified in the said 
notice with the object of bringing the building or work in 
conformity with the said sanction, condition or 
provisions; or 

(b) to show cause why such alterations should not be made 
within the period stated in the notice. 


Completion 

Certificate. 


Restrictions on use of 
buildings and removal 
of dangerous 
buildings. 


(2) If the person or the owner does not show cause as 
aforesaid, he shall be bound to make the alterations specified in 
the notice. 

(3) If the person or the owner shows cause as aforesaid, the 
Commissioner shall by an order either cancel the notice issued 
under sub-section (1) or confirm the same subject to such 
modifications as he thinks fit. 

264. (1) Every person who employs a licensed architect or 
engineer or a person approved by the Commissioner to design 
or erect a building or execute any work shall, within one month 
after the completion of the erection of the building or execution 
of the work, deliver or send or cause to be delivered or sent to 
the Commissioner a notice in writing of such completion 
accompanied by a certificate in the fonn prescribed by bye-laws 
made in this behalf and shall give to the Commissioner all 
necessary facilities for the inspection of such building or work. 

(2) No person shall occupy or permit to be occupied any 
such building or use or permit to be used any building or a part 
thereof effected by any such work until pennission has been 
granted by the Commissioner in this behalf in accordance with 
bye-laws made under this Act: 

Provided that if the Commissioner fails within a period of 
thirty days after the receipt of the notice of completion to 
communicate his refusal to grant such pennission, it shall be 
deemed to have been granted. 

265. (1) No person shall, without the written pennission of the 
Commissioner, or otherwise than in confonnity with the 
conditions, if any, of such permission- 

(a) use or pennit to be used for human habitation any part 
of a building not originally erected or authorised to be 
used for that purpose or not used for that purpose before 
any alteration has been made therein by any work 
executed in accordance with the provisions of this Act 
and of the bye-laws made there under; 

(b) change or allow the change of the use of any land or 
building; 

(c) convert or allow the conversion of one kind of tenement 
into another kind. 

(2) If it appears to the Commissioner at any time that any 
building is in a ruinous condition, or likely to fall, or in any 
way dangerous to any person occupying, resorting to or passing 
by such building or any other building or place in the 
neighborhood of such building, the Commissioner may, by 
order in writing, require the owner or occupier of such building 
to demolish, secure or repair such building or do one or more of 
such things within such period as may be specified in the order, 


Power to order 
building to be vacated 
in certain 
circumstances. 


Building Scheme. 


as to prevent all cause of danger there from. 

(3) The Commissioner may also, if he thinks fit, require such 
owner or occupier by the order made under sub-section (2) 
either forthwith or before proceeding to demolish, secure or 
repair the building to set up a proper and sufficient board or 
fence for the protection of passers-by and other persons, with a 
convenient platform and hand rail wherever practicable to serve 
as a foot way for passengers outside of such board or fence. 

(4) If it appears to the Commissioner that danger from a 
building which is in ruinous condition or likely to fall is 
imminent, he may, before making the order aforesaid, fence off, 
demolish, secure or repair the said building or take such steps 
as may be necessary to prevent the danger. 

(5) If the owner or occupier of the building does not comply 
with the order within the period specified therein, the 
Commissioner shall take such steps in relation to the building 
as to prevent all cause of danger there from. 

(6) All expenses incurred by the Commissioner in relation to 
any building under this section shall be recoverable from the 
owner or occupier thereof as an arrear of tax under this Act. 

266. (1) The Commissioner may by order in writing direct that 
any building, which in his opinion is in a dangerous condition 
or is not provided with sufficient means of agrees in case of fire 
or is occupied in contravention of section 264, be vacated 
forthwith or within such period as may be specified in the 
order: 

Provided that at the time of making such order the 
Commissioner shall record a brief statement of the reasons 
therefore. 

(2) If any person fails to vacate the building in pursuance 
of such order the Commissioner may direct any police officer to 
remove such person from the building and the police officer 
shall comply with such direction accordingly. 

(3) The Commissioner shall, on the application of any 
person who has vacated, or has been removed from any 
building in pursuance of an order made by him, allow such 
person to reoccupy the building on the expiry of the period for 
which the order has been in force; provided that the reasons on 
account of which the vacation was ordered have been rectified 
or have ceased to exist. 

267. (1) The Corporation may, and if so required by the 
Government shall, within six months of the date of such 
requisition, draw up a building scheme for built areas, and a 
town planning scheme for inbuilt areas, and a town planning 
scheme for inbuilt areas, which may among other things 
provide for the following matters, namely:- 


(a) the restriction of the erection re-erection of buildings or 
any class of buildings in the whole or any part of the 
city, and of the use to which they may be put: 

(b) the prescription of a building line on either side or both 
sides of any street existing or proposed; 

21 

[“(c) the amount of land in such inbuilt area shall be 
transferred to the Corporation for public purposes including 
use as public streets by owners of land on payment of 
compensation: 

Provided that the total amount so transferred shall not exceed 
fifty per centum; 

Provided further that where owners of land offer land 
willingly without payment of compensation to draw up a town 
planning scheme they shall not be entitled to any 
compensation;] 

(d) the determination of the size and shape of a 
reconstituted plot so as to render it suitable for building 
purposes and where the plot is already built upon, to 
ensure that the building, so far as possible. Complies 
with the provisions of the scheme in respect of open 
spaces; 

(e) the formation of a reconstituted plot by the alteration of 
the boundaries of an original plot; 

(f) the formation of a reconstituted plot by the transfer 
wholly or partly of the adjoining lands; 

(g) the allotment of a plot to any owner dispossessed of 
land in furtherance of the scheme; 

(h) the transfer of ownership of a plot from one person to 
another; and 

(i) the details of the internal services, estimated cost for 
providing them, the extent of the liability of the owner 
of buildings and lands for the payment of the cost and 
the manner of payment of the same. 

Explanation.- For the purposes of this section- 

(1) the reconstituted plot shall mean a plot which is 

altered in ownership or otherwise as a result of 

making of a town planning scheme; 

(2) internal services shall mean- 

i) medalling of roads and paving of footpaths; 

ii) turning and plantation with trees of open 

spaces; 

iii) street lighting; 

iv) adequate and whole some water supply; 

v) sewers and drains both for storm and sullage 

water and necessary provision for their 
treatment and disposal; and 


vi) any other works that the Corporation may think 
necessary for the development of the area 
comprised in the scheme. 

(2) When a scheme has been drawn up under the provision of 
sub-section (1), the Corporation shall give public notice of such 
scheme and shall at the same time intimate a date not less than 
thirty days from the date of such notice by which any person 
may submit to the Corporation in writing any objection or 
suggestion with regard to such scheme which he may wish to 
make. 

(3) The Corporation shall consider every objection or 
suggestion with regard to the scheme which may be received by 
the date intimated under the provisions of sub-section (2) and 
may modify the scheme in consequence of any such objection 
or suggestion and shall then forward such scheme as originally 
drawn up or as modified to the Government which may 
sanction such scheme or may refuse to sanction it, or may 
return it to the Corporation for reconsideration and 
resubmission by a specified date. 

(4) If a Corporation fails to submit a scheme within six 
months of being required to do so under sub-section (1) or fails 
to resubmit a scheme by a specified date, when required to do 
so under sub-section (3) or resubmit a scheme which is not 
approved by the Government, the Government may draw up a 
scheme of which public notice shall be given by notification 
and by publication within the Municipal area together with an 
intimation of the date by which any person may submit in 
writing to the Government any objection or suggestion which 
he may wish to make and the Government may sanction such 
scheme as originally notified or modified in consequence of 
any such objections or suggestion, as the Government may 
think fit; and the cost of such scheme or such portion of the cost 
as the Government may deem fit shall be defrayed from the 
Corporation Fund. 

(5) While sanctioning a scheme the Government may 
impose condition for the submission of periodical reports to it 
on the progress of the scheme and for the inspection and 
supervision of the scheme. 

(6) After the scheme has been sanctioned, the Corporation 
shall proceed to provide internal services as soon as possible 
and complete it within a period of five years from the date of its 
sanction. 

(7) If under the provisions of any scheme sanctioned under 
the preceding sub-sections the erection or re-erection of 
building in a specified area for a specified purpose is 
prohibited, any person who after such scheme is sanctioned, 


Provision for daily 
cleansing of streets 
and removal of 
rubbish and filth. 


Rubbish etc to be 
property of 
Corporation. 

Provision for 
placement of 
receptacles, depots 
and places for rubbish 
etc. 


uses any building for such purpose shall, unless it was used for 
this purpose before the scheme was sanctioned, on conviction 
be liable to fine which may extend to five thousands rupees, 
and if after such conviction he continues to use such building 
for such purpose shall be liable to fine which may extend to one 
hundred rupees for every day during which such use continues. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this section- 

i) ‘built area’ is that portion of a Municipal area 
of which the greater part has been developed 
as a business or residential area; and 

ii) ‘unbuilt area’ is an area within the local limits 
of a Municipal area which is declared as such 
at a special meeting of the Corporation by a 
resolution confirmed by the Government, or 
which is notified as such by the Government. 

CHAPTER-XV 

SANITATION AND PUBLIC HEALTH 

268. (1) For the purpose of securing the efficient scavenging 
and cleansing of all streets and premises, the Commissioner, 
shall provide- 

(a) for the daily surface cleansing of all streets and the 
removal of the sweepings there from; and 

(b) for the removal of the contents of all receptacles and 
depots and of the accumulations at all places provided 
for appointed by him under the provisions of this Act 
for the temporary deposit of rubbish, filth and other 
polluted and obnoxious matter. 

(2) The Commissioner may, by public notice issue directions 
as to the time at which, the manner in which, and the conditions 
subject to which, any matter referred to in sub-section (1) may 
be removed along a street or may be deposited or otherwise 
disposed of. 

269. All matters deposited in public receptacle, deposits and 
places provided or appointed under section 270 and all matters 
collected by Corporation employees or contractors in pursuance 
of section 268 and 273 shall be property of the Corporation. 

270. (1) The Commissioner shall- 

(a) provide or place in proper and convenient situations 
public receptacles, depots or places for the temporary 
deposit of rubbish, filth and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter and for the final disposal of rubbish, 
filth and other polluted and obnoxious matter; 

(b) provide dustbin for the temporary deposit of rubbish; 

(c) provide vehicles or other suitable mans for the removal 


Use of Municipal 
Corporation, 
Government or 
private land for the 
purpose of collection 
and disposal of solid 
waste. 


Duty of owners and 
occupiers to collect 
and deposit rubbish 
etc. 


Removal of rubbish 
etc. accumulated on 
premises used as 
factories workshop, 
etc. 


of rubbish and offensive matter; and 

(d) provide covered vehicles or vessels for the removal of 
filth and other polluted and obnoxious matter. 

(2) The Commissioner shall make adequate provisions for 

preventing receptacles, depots, dustbins, vehicles and vessels 

referred to in sub-section (1) from becoming sources of 

nuisance. 

22 

[270A. (1) Corporation may use any place or land belonging 
to the Corporation or the State Government or private land for 
the purpose of collection, treatment and disposal of solid waste 
within or outside then limit and may at all times do all acts, 
things which may be necessary or expedient for repairing and 
maintaining such lands selected for solid waste management: 

Provided that reasonable compensation shall be paid to the 
owner or occupier of the land. If it belongs to any private 
person. 

(2) The Urban Development Authorities as well as private 
colonizers shall provide suitable land/site for solid waste 
management at the time of planning of new residential, 
commercial and industrial complexes.] 

271. It shall be the duty of the owner and occupiers of all 
premises- 

(a) to have the premises swept and cleaned; 

(b) to cause all filth, rubbish and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter to be collected from their respective 
premises and deposited at such times as the 
Commissioner, by the public notice prescribe, in public 
receptacles, depots or places provided or appointed 
under section 270 for temporary deposit or final disposal 
thereof; 

(c) to provide receptacles or the type and in the manner 
prescribed by the Commissioner for the collection 
therein of all filth, rubbish and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter from such premises and to keep such 
receptacles in good condition and repair. 

272. The Commissioner may, if he thinks fit- 

(a) by written notice require the owner or occupier of any 
premises used for carrying on any manufacture, trade or 
business or used as a factory, workshop, trade premises 
or market or in any way so that rubbish, filth and other 
polluted and obnoxious matter are accumulated in large 
quantities, to collect all such rubbish, filth and other 
polluted and obnoxious matter accumulated thereon and 
to remove the same at such time and in such carts or 
receptacles and by such routes as may be specified in the 
notice to a depot or place provided or appointed under 


Prohibition against 
accumulation of 
rubbish etc. 


Commissioner’s 
power to get premises 
Scavenged and 
cleansed. 


section 270; or 

(b) after giving such owner or occupier notice of his 
intention cause all rubbish, filth and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter accumulated in such premises to be 
removed and charge the said owner or occupier for such 
removal such fee as may, with the sanction of the 
Corporation, be specified in the notice issued under 
clause (a) 

273. (1) No owner or occupier of any premises shall keep or 
allow to e kept for more than twenty-four hours or otherwise 
than in a receptacle approved by the Commissioner, any 
rubbish, filth or other polluted and obnoxious matter on such 
premises or any place belonging there to or neglect to employ 
proper means to remove such rubbish, filth and other polluted 
and obnoxious matter from or to cleanse, such receptacle and to 
dispose of such rubbish, filth and other polluted and obnoxious 
matter in the manner directed by the Commissioner, or fail to 
comply with any requisition of the Commissioner as to the 
construction, repair, pavement or cleansing of any latrine or 
urinal on or belonging to the premises. 

(2) No owner or occupier shall allow the water of any sink, 
drain, latrine or urinal or any rubbish, filth and other polluted 
and obnoxious matter to run down on or to be thrown or put 
upon, any street or into any drain in or along the site of any 
street except in such manner as shall prevent any avoidable 
nuisance from any such water, rubbish, filth or other polluted 
and obnoxious matter. 

(3) No person shall, after due provisions had been made in 
this respect under the foregoing provisions of this Chapter for 
the deposit and removal of the same- 

(a) deposit any rubbish, filth and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter in any street or on the verandah of 
any building or on any un occupied ground along side 
any street or on the bank of [“a water course or on 
public and vacant land;] or 

(b) deposit any filth or other polluted and obnoxious matter 
in any dustbin on in any vehicle not intended for the 
removal of the same; or 

(c) deposit rubbish in any vehicle or vessel or vessel 
intended for the removal of filth and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter. 

274. If any premises are not properly and regularly scavenged 
or cleansed or are in a filthy and unwholesome condition, the 
Commissioner may cause them to be scavenged and cleansed 
and recover the expenses from the owner or, as the case may 
be, occupier as an arrear of tax under this Act. 


Public latrines, 
urinals, etc. 


Constructions of 
latrines and urinals. 


Latrines and urinals 
etc. in new buildings. 


275. (1) The Commissioner shall provide and maintain in 
proper and convent places a sufficient number of public latrines 
and urinals. 

(2) Public latrines and urinals shall be so constructed as to 
provide separate compartments for each sex and not to be a 
nuisance, and shall be provided with all necessary conservancy, 
establishments and shall regularly be cleansed and kept in 
proper order. 

276. (1) It shall not be lawful to construct any latrine or urinal 
for any premises except with the written permission of the 
Commissioner and in accordance with such tenns not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any bye-laws 
made there under as he may prescribe. 

(2) In prescribing terms under sub-section (1), the 
Commissioner shall detennine in each case- 

(a) whether the premises shall be served by flush system or 
premises shall have water seal latrine; 

(b) what shall be the site or position of each latrine or 
urinal. 

(3) If any latrine or urinal is constructed on any premises in 
contravention of the foregoing provisions. The Commissioner 
may, after giving not less than ten days notice to the owner or 
occupier of such premises, after, reconstruct, close or demolish 
such latrine or urinals and the expenditure incurred by the 
Commissioner in so doing shall be recoverable from the owner 
or occupier as an arrear or tax under this Act. 

(4) No building plans shall be passed by the Corporation 
against the provisions made in this section. 

277. (1) It shall not be lawful to erect any building or execute 
any work on or in relation to such building without providing 
such latrine accommodation and accommodation for bathing or 
for washing clothes and utensils on each floor of such building 
as may be prescribed. 

(2) While prescribing such accommodation it may in each 
case be determined- 

(a) Whether such building shall be served by the flush 
system or by water seal system; 

(b) What shall be the site or position of each latrine, urinal, 
bathing or washing place or site and their number on 
each floor and their clear internal dimensions. 

(3) It shall not be lawful to erect a residential building 
composed of separate tenements on the flat system without 
providing at least one latrine and one bathing or washing place 
for servants on the ground floor of such building or at any other 
suitable place in the same premises. 

(4) In this section the expression “to erect a building” has 


Latrines and urinals 
for laborers etc. 


Provision of latrines 
and urinals for 
markets etc. 


Other provisions as to 
private latrines. 


Removal of congested 
buildings. 


the same meaning as in section 249. 

278. Every person employing workmen, laborers or other 
persons exceeding twenty in number shall provide and maintain 
for the separate use of persons of each sex so employed, latrines 
and urinals, of such description and number as the 
Commissioner may be notice require and within such time as 
may be fixed in the notice and shall keep the same in clean and 
proper order. 

279. The Commissioner may by notice require any owner or 
manager of a market. Cart stand, cattle shed. Theater, railway 
station and other places of public resort within such time as 
may be specified in such notice to provide and maintain for the 
separate use of persons of each sex, latrines and urinals of such 
description and number and in such position as may be 
specified and to keep the same in clean and proper order. 

280. The Commissioner may, by written notice. 

(a) require the owner or other person having the control of 
any private latrine or urinal not to put the same to public 
use; or 

(b) require the owner or other persons having control of such 
private latrine or urinal which in the opinion of the 
Commissioner constitutes a nuisance, to remove the 
latrine or the urinal; or 

(c) require any person having the control whether as owner, 
lessee or occupier of any land or building- 

i) to have any latrine provided for the same shut 
out by a sufficient roof, wall or fence from the 
view of persons passing by or dwelling in the 
neighborhood; or 

ii) to cleanse in such manner as the 
Commissioner may specify in the notice any 
latrine or urinal belonging to the land or 
building; or 

iii) where any premises intended or used for 
human habitation are without any latrine or 
urinal accommodation, or are provided with 
sufficient latrine or urinal accommodation, 
require the owner, lessee or occupier of such 
premises to provide such or such additional 
latrine or urinal accommodation as may be 
prescribed, if necessary, by causing any part 
of such premises to be voted and demolished 
in accordance with the bye-laws made in this 
behalf. 

281. (1) Where it appears to the Commissioner that any block 
of buildings is in an unhealthy condition by reason of the 


Power of 

Commissioner require 
improvement of 
building unfit for 
human habitation. 


manner in which the buildings are crowded together, or of the 
narrowness, closeness, or faulty arrangement of streets, or of 
the want of proper drainage and ventilation, or of the 
impracticability of cleansing the buildings or other similar 
cause, he shall cues the block to be inspected cleansing the 
buildings or other similar cause, he shall cause the block to be 
inspected by the Corporation Health Officer and the 
Corporation Engineer, who shall make a report in writing to 
him regarding the sanitary condition of the block. 

(2) If upon receipt of such report the Commissioner 
considers that the sanitary condition of the block is likely to 
cause risk of disease to the inhabitants of the buildings or of the 
neighborhood or otherwise to endanger the public health, he 
shall with the approval of the Corporation select the buildings 
which in his opinion should wholly or in part be removed in 
order to abate the unhealthy condition of the block and may 
there upon by notice in writing require the owners of such 
buildings to remove them with such period as may be specified 
in the notice: 

Provided that before issuing the notice, reasonable 
opportunity should be afforded to the owners to show cause 
why the buildings should not be removed: 

Provided further that the Commissioner shall make 
compensation to the owners for any building, so removed 
which may have been erected under proper authority. 

(3) If a notice under sub-section (2) requiring any owner of a 
building to remove it is not complied with, then, after the 
expiration of the time specified in the notice the Commissioner 
may himself remove the building required to be removed by the 
notice and recover from the owner of the building the expenses 
of such removal as an arrear of tax under this Act. 

282. (1) Where the Commissioner upon information in his 

possession is satisfied that any building is in any respect unfit 
for human habitation, he may, unless in his opinion the building 
is not capable at a reasonable expense of being rendered fit, 
serve upon the owner of the building a notice requiring him 
within such time not being less than thirty days as may be 
specified in the notice to execute the works of improvement 
specified therein and stating that in his opinion those works will 
render the building fit for human habitation. 

(2) In addition to serving a notice under this section on the 
owner the Commissioner may serve a copy of the notice on any 
other person having an interest in the building whether as a 
lessee, mortgage or otherwise. 

(3) In determining whether a building can be rendered fit for 
human habitation at a reasonable expense regard shall be had to 


Enforcement of notice 
requiring execution of 
works of 
improvement. 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
order demolition of 
buildings unfit for 
human habitation. 


the estimated cost of the work necessary to render it so fit and 
the value which it is estimated that the building will have when 
the works are completed. 

283. If a notice under section 282 requiring the owner of the 
building to execute works of improvement is not complied 
with, then, after the expiration of the time specified in the 
notice the Commissioner may himself do the works required to 
be done by the notice and recover the expenses incurred in 
connection therewith s an arrear of tax under this Act. 

284. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 144 of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, where the 
Commissioner upon any information in his possession is 
satisfied that any building is unfit for human habitation and is 
not capable at a reasonable expense of being rendered so fit, he 
shall serve upon the owner of the building and upon any other 
person having an interest in the building, whether as a lessee, 
mortgage or otherwise a notice to show cause within such time 
as may be specified in the notice as to why an order of 
demolition of the building should not be made. 

(2) If any of the persons upon whom a notice has been 
served under sub-section (1), appears in pursuance thereof 
before the Commissioner and gives an under taking to him that 
such person shall, within a period specified by the 
Commissioner, execute such works of improvement in relation 
to the building as will, in the opinion of the Commissioner 
render the building fit for human habitation or an undertaking 
that the building shall boot be used for human habitation until 
the Commissioner, on being satisfied that it has been rendered 
fit for that purpose, cancel the undertaking, the Commissioner 
shall not make an order of demolition of the building. 

(3) If no such undertaking as is mentioned in sub-section (2) 
is given, or if in a case where any such undertaking has been 
given, any work of improvement to which the undertaking 
relates is not carried out within the specified period or the 
building is at any time used in contravention of the terms of the 
undertaking, the Commissioner shall forthwith make an order 
of demolition of the building requiring that the building shall be 
vacated within a period to be specified in the order not being 
less than thirty days from the date of the order, and that it shall 
be demolished within six weeks of the expiration of that period. 

(4) Where an order of demolition of a building under this 
section has been made, the owner of building or any other 
person having an interest therein shall demolish that building 
within the time specified in that behalf by the order, and if the 
building is not demolished within that time, the Commissioner 
shall demolish the building and sell the materials thereof. 


(5) Any expenses incurred by the Commissioner under sub- 
section (4), if not satisfied out of the proceeds of the sale of 
materials of the building, shall be recovered from the owner of 
the building or any other person having an interest therein as an 
arrear of tax under this Act. 

(6) In determining for the purposes of section 282 and this 
section whether a building is unfit for human habitation, regard 
shall be had to its condition in respect of the following matters 
that is to say- 

(a) repair; 

(b) stability; 

(c) freedom from damp; 

(d) natural light and air; 

(e) water supply; 

(f) drainage and sanitary conveniences; 

(g) facilities for storage, preparation and cooking of food 
and for the disposal of rubbish, filth and other polluted 
matter, 

and the building shall be deemed to be unfit as aforesaid if and 
only if it sis so far defective in one or more of the said matters 
that it is not reasonably suitable for occupation in that 
conditions. 

Explanation. - In sections 282, 283 and this section, “work 
of improvement” in relation to a building includes any one or 
more of the following works, namely: - 

(a) necessary repairs; 

(b) structural alterations; 

(c) provision of light points and water taps; 

(d) construction of drains, open or covered; 

(e) provision of latrines and urinals; 

(f) provision of additional or improved fixtures and 
fittings; 

(g) opening up or paving of courtyard; 

(h) removal of rubbish, filth and other polluted and 
obnoxious matter; 

(i) any other work including the demolition of any 
building or any part thereof which, in the opinion of 
the Commissioner, is necessary for executing any of 
the works specified above. 

(7) The person, against whom and order under sub-section 
(4) is made, may, within a period of thirty days of such order, 
file and appeal to the Divisional Commissioner. 

(8) The provisions of sections 281, 282, 283 and this 
section shall not apply in relation to any building etc. in any 
area which has been declared to be a slum area under the 
Punjab Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1961 


Insanitary huts and 
sheds. 


Prohibition against 
washing by washer 
men. 


Obligation to give 
information of 
dangerous disease. 


Removal of patient to 
hospital suffering 
from dangerous 
disease. 


(Punjab Act 24 of 1961). 

285. Where the Commissioner upon any infonnation in his 
possession is satisfied that any hut or shed used as dwelling 
house or as a stable or for any other purpose, is likely, by 
reason of its being constructed without a plinth or on account of 
the impracticability of scavenging and cleansing it or owing to 
the manner in which it and other huts or sheds are crowded 
together, to cause risk of disease to the inmates thereof or to the 
inhabitants of the neighbourhood, or is for any reason likely to 
endanger public health or safety, he may by notice in writing 
require the owner or occupier of the hut or shed or the owner or 
occupier of the land on which the hut or shed stands to remove 
on alter the hut or shed or carry out such improvement thereof 
as the Commissioner may deem necessary within such time as 
may be specified in the notice. 

286. (1) The Commissioner may by public notice prohibit the 
washing of clothes by washer men in the exercise of their 
callings except at such places as he may appoint for the 
purpose. 

(2) When any such prohibition has been made, no person 
who is by calling a washennan shall in contravention of such 
prohibition wash clothes except for himself or for personal and 
family service or for hire on or within the premises of the hirer 
at any place other than a place appointed under sub-section (1). 

287. Any person being in charge of or in attendance whether as 
medical practitioner or otherwise, upon any person whom he 
knows or has reason to believe to be suffering from a dangerous 
disease, or being owner, lessee or occupier of any building in 
which he knows that any such person is so suffering shall 
forthwith give infonnation in respect of the existence of such 
disease to the Corporation Health Officer. 

288. When any person suffering from any dangerous disease is 
found to be- 

(a) without proper lodging or accommodation; or 

(b) living in a room or house which he neither owns nor 
pays rent for, not occupies as the guest or relative of 
persons who owns, or pays rent for it; or 

(c) living in a sarai, hotel, boarding house or other public 
hostel; or 

(d) lodged in premises occupied by members of two or 
more families, the Commissioner or any person 
authorised by him in this behalf, may, on the advice of 
any medical officer of the rank not inferior to that of an 
assistant surgeon, remove the patient to any hospital or 
place at which persons suffering from such disease are 
received for medical treatment and may do anything 


Disinfection of 
buildings and articles. 


Destruction of 
infection huts or 
sheds. 


Means of 
disinfection. 


necessary for such removal. 

289. Where the Commissioner is of the opinion that the 
cleansing and disinfections of any building or part of a building 
or of any article in such building or part of which are likely to 
retain infection or the renewal or flooring of any building or 
part of such building and the renewal or plastering of the walls 
thereof, would tend to prevent or check the spread of any 
dangerous disease; he may, by notice in writing, require the 
owner or occupier to cleanse disinfect the said building, part or 
articles, as the case may be, or to renew the said flooring and if 
necessary the said plastering also within such time as may be 
specified in the notice; 

Provided that where in the opinion of the Commissioner 
the owner or occupier is from poverty unable effectually to 
carry out any such requisition, the Commissioner may at the 
expense of the Corporation cleanse and disinfect the building, 
or articles, or as the case may be, renew the flooring and if 
necessary, the plastering also. 

290. (1) Where the destruction of any hut or shed is in the 
opinion of the Commissioner necessary to prevent the spread of 
any dangerous disease, the Commissioner may by notice in 
writing require the owner to destroy the hut or shed and the 
materials thereof within such time as may be specified in the 
notice. 

(2) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the 
destruction of any hut or shed is immediately necessary 
for the purpose of preventing the spread of any 
dangerous disease, he may, order the owner or occupier 
of the hut or shed to destroy the same forthwith or may 
himself cause it to be destroyed. 

(3) Compensation may be paid by the Commissioner, in 
any case which he thinks fit to any person who sustains 
substantial loss by the destruction of any such hut or shed, but, 
except as so allowed by the Commissioner, no claim for 
compensation shall lie for any loss or damage caused by any 
exercise of the power conferred by this section. 

291. (1) The Commissioner shall- 

(a) provide proper places with necessary attendants and 
apparatus for the disinfection of conveyances, 
clothing, bedding and other articles which have 
been exposed to infection; 

(b) cause conveyances, clothing and other articles 
brought for disinfection to be disinfected either free 
of charge or on payment of such charges as he may 
fix. 

(2) The Commissioner may notify places at which articles 


Special measures in 
case of out-break of 
dangerous or 
epidemic diseases. 


Infected clothes not to 
be sent to washerman 
or to laundry. 


Contamination and 
disinfection of Public 
conveyances. 


of clothing, bedding and conveyances or other articles which 
have been exposed to infection shall be washed and if he does 
so, no person shall wash any such thing at any place not so 
notified without having previously disinfected such thing. 

(3) The Commissioner may direct the destruction of any 
clothing, bedding or other articles likely to retain infection and 
may give such compensation as he thinks fit for any article so 
destroyed. 

292. (1) In the event of the Municipal area or any part thereof 
being visited or threatened by an outbreak of any dangerous 
disease among the inhabitants thereof or of any epidemic 
disease among any animals therein, the Commissioner, if he 
thinks that the other provisions of this Act and the provisions of 
any other law for the time being in force are insufficient for the 
purpose may, with the previous sanction of the Corporation- 

(a) take such special measures; and 

(b) by public notice, give such directions to be observed by 
the public or by any class or section of the public, as he 
thinks necessary to prevent the outbreak or spread of the 
disease; 

Provided that where in the opinion of the Commissioner 
immediate measures are necessary, he may take action without 
such sanction as aforesaid and if he does so, shall forthwith 
report such action to the Corporation. 

(2) No person shall commit a breach of any direction given 
under sub-section (1) and if he does so he shall be deemed to 
have committed an offence under section 188 of the Indian 
Penal Code, 1860. 

293. (1) A person shall not send or take to any washennan or to 
any laundry or place set apart for the exercise by washerman or 
their calling, for the purpose of being washed or to any place 
for the purpose of being cleansed, any cloth or other article 
which he knows to have been exposed to infection from a 
dangerous disease unless that cloth or article has been 
disinfected by or to the satisfaction of the Corporation Health 
Officer. 

(2) The occupier of any building in which a person is suffering 
from a dangerous disease shall, if required by the Corporation 
Health Officer furnish to him the address of any washennan to 
whom or any laundry or other place to which clothes and other 
articles from the building have been or will be, sent during the 
continuance of the disease for the purpose of being washed or 
cleansed. 

294. (1) Whoever- 

(a) uses a public conveyance while suffering from a 
dangerous disease; or 


Driver of conveyance 
not bound to carry 
persons suffering 
from dangerous 
disease. 


Disinfection of 
buildings before 
letting the same. 


Disposal infected 
articles without 
disinfection. 


(b) uses a public conveyance for the carriage of person who 
is suffering from any disease; or 

(c) uses a public conveyance for the carriage of the corpse 
of a person who had dies from such disease, 

shall be found to take proper precautions against the 
communication of the disease to other person using or who 
may thereafter use the conveyance and to notify such use to the 
owner, driver or person in charge of the conveyance and 
further report without delay to the Commissioner the number 
of the conveyance and the name of the person so notified. 

(2) Where any person suffering from, or the corpse of any 
person who has died from a dangerous disease has been 
carried, in public conveyance which ordinarily plies in the 
Municipal area or any part thereof, the driver thereof, shall 
forthwith report the fact to the Commissioner who shall 
forthwith cause the conveyance to be disinfected if that has not 
already been done. 

(3) No such conveyance shall be again brought into use 
until the Corporation Health Officer has granted a certificate 
stating that it can be used without causing risk of infection. 

(4) Whoever fails to make to the Commissioner any report 
which he is required to make under this section shall be guilty 
of an offence. 

295. Notwithstanding any thing contained in any law for the 
time being in force no owner, driver or person incharge of a 
public conveyance shall be bound to convey or to allow to be 
conveyed in such conveyance in or in the vicinity of the 
Municipal area any person suffering from a dangerous disease 
or the corpse of any person who had died from such disease 
unless and until such person pays or tenders a sum sufficient to 
recover any loss and expenses which would ordinarily be 
incurred in disinfecting the conveyance. 

296. (1) Where any building or part of a building, is intended to 
be let in which any person has, within six weeks immediately 
preceding, been suffering from a dangerous disease, the person 
letting the building or part shall, before doing so, disinfect the 
same in such manner as the Commissioner may by general or 
special notice direct together with all articles therein liable to 
retain infection. 

(2) For the purpose of this section the keeper of a hostel, 
hotel, lodging house or sarai shall be deemed to let a part of the 
building to any person accommodated in such hotel, hotel, 
loding house or a sarai, as the case may be. 

297. No person shall, without previous disinfection give, lend, 
sell, transmit or otherwise dispose of to another person any 
article or thing which he knows or has reason to believe was 


Prohibition of making 
or selling of food etc. 
or washing of clothes 
by infect persons. 


Power to restrict or 
prohibit sale of food 
or drink. 


Control over wells 
and tanks etc. 


Duty of persons 
suffering from 
dangerous disease. 


exposed to contamination by any dangerous disease and is 
likely to be used in or taken into the Municipal area or any part 
thereof. 

298. No person, while suffering from, or in circumstances in 
which he is likely to spread any dangerous disease, shall- 

(a) make, carry of offer for sale or take any part in the 
business of making, carrying or offering for sale, any 
article of food or drink or any medicine or drug for 
human consumption, or any article of clothing or 
bedding for personal use or wear; or 

(b) take any part in the business of washing or carrying of 
clothes. 

299. When the Municipal area or any part thereof is visited or 
threatened by an outbreak of any dangerous disease, the 
Commissioner may, by public notice, restrict in such manner or 
prohibit for such period as may be specified in the notice, the 
sale or preparation of any article of food or drink for human 
consumption specified in the notice or the sale of flesh of any 
description of animal so specified. 

300. (1) If the Commissioner is of opinion that the water in any 
well, tank or other place is likely if used for drinking, to 
endanger, or cause the spread of any disease, he may- 

(a) by public notice, prohibit the removal or use of such 
water, for drinking; or 

(b) by notice in writing, require the owner or person having 
control of such well, tank or place to take such steps as 
may be directed by the notice to prevent the public from 
having access to or using such water; or 

(c) take such other steps as he may consider expedient to 
prevent the out break or spread of any such disease. 

(2) In the event of the Municipal area or any part thereof 
being visited or threatened by an out break of a dangerous 
disease, the Corporation Health Officer or any person 
authorised by him in this behalf, may without notice and at any 
time, inspect and disinfect any well, tank or other place from 
which water is, or is likely to be, taken for the purpose of 
drinking and may further take such steps as he may think fit to 
ensure the purity of the water or to prevent the use of the same 
for drinking purposes. 

301. No person shall- 

(a) knowing that he is suffering from a dangerous disease 
expose other persons to the risk of infection by his 
presence or conduct in any public street or public place; 

(b) having the care of a person whom he knows to be 
suffering from a dangerous disease cause or pennit that 
person to expose other person to the risk of infection by 


Disposal of infectious 
corpse, where any 
person has died from 
any dangerous 
disease. 


Conditions of service 
of Safai Karamcharis 
and certain other 
classes of persons 
employed in 
Corporation service. 


Power to call for 
information regarding 
burning and burial 
ground. 

Permission for use of 
new burning or burial 
ground. 


Power to require 
closing of burning 
and burial ground. 


his presence or conduct in any such street or place as 
aforesaid; 

(c) place or cause to be placed in a dusting or other 
receptacle for the deposit of rubbish, any matter which 
he knows to have been exposed to or having infection 
from a dangerous disease and which has not been 
disinfected properly; 

(d) throw or cause to be thrown into any latrine or urinal 
any matter which he knows to have been exposed to 
infection from a dangerous disease and which has not 
been disinfected properly. 

302. Where any person has died from any dangerous disease 
the Commissioner may by notice in writing- 

(a) require any person having charge of the corpse to 
convey the same to mortuary thereafter to be disposed 
of in accordance with law; or 

(b) prohibit the removal of corpses from the place where 
death occurred except for the purpose of being brunt, 
buried for from being conveyed to a mortuary. 

303. (1) No person being a Safai Karamchari employed by the 
Corporation shall in the absence of any contract authorizing 
him so to do and without reasonable cause, resign his 
employment or absent himself from his duty without having 
given one month’s notice to the Commissioner or shall neglect 
or without reasonable cause refuse to perform his duties. 

(2) The Corporation may by resolution direct that on or 
from such date as may be specified in the resolution, the 
provisions of this section shall apply in the case of any 
specified class of persons employed by the Corporation whose 
functions are intimately concerned with public health or safety. 

304. The Commissioner may, by notice in writing, require the 
owner or person incharge of any building or burial grounds, 
cremation ground or electric crematorium to supply such 
information as may be specified in the notice concerning the 
condition, management or position of such ground. 

305. (1) No place which has not been used as a burning or 
burial ground, cremation grounds or electric crematorium 
before the commencement of this Act, shall be so used without 
the permission in writing of the Commissioner. 

(2) Such permission may be granted subject to any 
condition which the Commissioner may think fit to impose for 
the purpose or preventing any annoyance to or danger to the 
health of any person residing in the neighbourhood. 

306. (1) Where the Commissioner, after making or causing to 
be made local enquiry, is of opinion that any burning or burial 
grounds or cremation ground or electric crematorium, has 


Removal of corpses. 


Disposal of dead 
animals. 


Prohibitions of 
nuisances. 


become offensive to, or dangerous to the health of person 
residing in the neighbourhood, he may with the previous 
sanction of the Corporation, by notice in writing, require the 
owner or person incharge of such ground to close the same 
from such date as may be specified in the notice. 

(2) No corpse shall be burnt or buried at the burning or 
burial ground in respect of which a notice has been issued 
under this section. 

307. The Commissioner may by public notice prescribe routes 
by which alone corpses may be removed to burning or burial 
grounds. 

308. (1) Whenever any animal in the charge of any person dies, 
the person incharge thereof shall within twenty-four hours 
either- 

(a) convey of carcass to a place provided or 
appointed under section 270 for the final 
disposal of the carcasses of dead animal; or 

(b) give notice of the death to the Commissioner 
whereupon he shall cause the carcass to be 
disposed of. 

(2) In respect of the disposal of the carcass of dead animals 
under clause (b) of sub-section (1) the Commissioner may 
charge such fee as he may by public notice specify. 

CHAPTER-XVI 

PUBLIC SAFETY ANAD SUPRESSION OF NUISANCES 

309. (1) No person shall- 

(a) in any public street or public place- 

id) case himself; or 

(ii) carry meet exposed to public view; or 

(iii) picked animals or collect carts; or 

(iv) being engaged in the removal of rubbish, filth 
or other polluted and obnoxious matters 
willfully or negligently pennit any portion 
thereof to spill or fall or neglect to sweep away 
or otherwise effectually to remove any portion 
thereof which may spill or fall in such street or 
place; or 

(v) without proper authority affix; upon any 
building, monument, post, wall, fence, tree or 
other thing, any bill, notice or other document; 
or 

(vi) without proper authority deface or write upon or 
otherwise mark any building, monument, post, 
wall, fence, tree or other thing; or 

(vii) without proper authority remove, destroy, 
deface or otherwise obliterate any notice or 


other document put up or exhibited under this 
Act or the rules or bye-laws made thereunder; 
or 

(viii) without proper authority displace, damage, 
make any alteration, in, or otherwise interfere 
with, the pavement, gutter, storm, water-drain, 
sign-board or other materials of any such street, 
or any lamp, bracket, direction, post, hydrant or 
water-pipe maintained by the Corporation in 
any such street or place, or extinguish a public 
light; or 

(ix) carry rubbish, filth or other polluted or 
obnoxious matter at any hour prohibited by the 
Commissioner by public notice, or in any 
pattern of cart or receptacle which has not been 
approved for the purpose by the Commissioner, 
or fail to close such cart or receptacle when in 
use; or 

(b) carry rubbish, filth or other polluted or obnoxious 
matter along any route in contravention or any 
prohibition made in this behalf by the Commissioner 
by public notice; or 

(c) deposit or cause or permit to be deposited, earth or 
materials of any description or any rubbish or 
polluted or obnoxious matter in any place not 
intended for the purpose or in any public street or 
public place or unoccupied land under the 
management of the Corporation; or 

(d) make any grave or burn of bury any corpse at any 
place not set a part for such purpose; or 

(e) at any time or place at which the same has been 
prohibited by the Commissioner by public or special 
notice, beat a drum or tom-tom, or blow a hom or 
trumpet, or beat any utensil, or sound any brass or 
other instrument, or play any music; or 

(f) disturb the public place or order by singing, 
screaming or shouting, or by using any apparatus for 
amplifying or reproducing the human voice, such as a 
megaphone or a loud-speaker; or 

(g) let loose any animal so as to cause, or negligently 
allow any animal to cause, injury, danger, alarm or 
annoyance to any person; or 

(h) save with the written permission of the 

Commissioner and in such manner as he may 
authorise, store or use night-soil, cow-dung, manure, 
rubbish or any other substance emitting an offensive 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
require removal or 
abatement of 
nuisance. 


Registration and 
control of dogs. 


smell; or 

(i) use or permit to be used as a latrine any place not 
intended for that purpose. 

(2) Every person shall take all reasonable means to prevent 
every child under the age of twelve years being in his charge 
from easing himself in any public street or public place. 

(3) The owner or keeper of any animal shall not allow it 
straying in public street or public place without a keeper. 

(4) Any animal found straying as aforesaid may be removed 
by an officer or employee of the Corporation or by any police 
officer to a pound. 

(5) Any swine found straying in a public street or public 
place shall be liable to be destroyed by any officer or other 
employee of the Corporation appointed in this behalf. 

310. Where the Commissioner is of opinion that there is a 
nuisance of any land or building, he may, by notice in writing, 
require the person by whose act, default or sufferance the 
nuisance arises or continues or the owner, lessee or occupier of 
the land or building, or one or more of these persons to remove 
or abate the nuisance by taking such measures in such manner 
and within such period as may be specified in the notice. 

311. (1) The Corporation may, by bye-laws made in this behalf- 

(a) require the registration by the registration 
authority appointed by the Commissioner in this 
behalf of all dogs kept within the Municipal areas; 

(b) require that every registered dog shall wear a 
collar to which shall be attached a metal token to be 
issued by the registration authority, and fix the fee 
payable for the issue thereof; 

(c) require that any dog which has not been 
registered or which is not wearing such token shall, 
if found in any public place, be detained at a place 
set apart for the purpose; and 

(d) fix the fee which shall be charged for such 
detention and provide that any such dog shall be 
liable to destroyed or otherwise disposed of unless 
it is claimed and the fee in respect there of is paid 
within one week. 

(2) The Commissioner may- 

(a) cause to be destroyed, or to be confined for such 
period as he may direct, any dog or other animal 
which is, or is reasonably suspected to be suffering 
from rabies, or which has been bitten by any dog or 
other animal suffering or suspected to be suffering 
from rabies; 

(b) by public notice direct that, after such date as may 


Stacking or collecting 

inflammable 

materials. 


Care of naked lights. 


Discharging fire 
works, firearms etc. 


Power to require 
buildings, wells etc. 


be specified in the notice, dogs which are without 
collars or without marks, distinguishing them as 
private property and are found straying on the 
streets or beyond the enclosures of the houses of 
their owners, if any, may be destroyed and cause 
them to be destroyed accordingly. 

(3) No damages shall be payable in respect of any dog or 
other animal destroyed or otherwise disposed of under this 
section. 

(4) No one, being the owner or person incharge of any dog, 
shall allow it to be at large in any public place without being 
muzzled and without being secured by a chain lead in any case 
in which- 

(a) he knows that the dog is likely to annoy or 
intimidate any person; 

(b) the Commissioner has, by public notice during the 
prevalence of rabies, directed that dogs shall not 
be at large without muzzled and chain leads. 

(5) No one shall- 

(a) allow any ferocious dog which belongs to him or is in 
his charge to be at large without being muzzled; or 

(b) set on or urge any dog or other animal to attack, worry 
or intimidate any person; or 

(c) knowing or having reason to believe that any dog or 
animal belonging to him or in his charge has been 
bitten by any animal suffering or reasonably suspected 
to be suffering from rabies, fail or neglect to give 
immediate information of the fact to the Commissioner 
or give information which is false. 

312. The Commissioner may by public notice, prohibit in any 
case where such prohibition appears to him to be necessary for 
the prevention of danger to life or property, the stacking or 
collecting of wood, dry grass, straw or other inflammable 
materials or the placing of mats or thatched huts or the lighting 
of fires in any place which may be specified in the notice. 

313. No person shall set a naked light on or near any building in 
any public street or other public place in such manner as to 
cause danger of fire: 

Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to 
prohibit the use of lights for the purpose of illumination on the 
occasion of a festival or public or private entertainment. 

314. No one shall discharge any firearm or let off fire -works or 
fire -balloons, or engage in any game in such manner as to be 
likely to cause danger to persons passing by or dwelling or 
working in the neighbourhood or risk of injury to property. 

315. Where any building, or wall, or anything, affixed thereto, 

nr anv wpll tank rp^prvnir nnnl rlpnrpssinn nr pxravatinn nr 


to be rendered safe. 


Enclosure of waste 
land used for 
improper purposes. 


Establishment and 
maintenance of fire- 
brigade. 


Power of members of 
fire-brigades and 
other persons or 
suppression of fire. 


or any well, tank, reservoir, pool, depression or excavation, or 
any bank or tree, is in the opinion of the Commissioner, in a 
ruinous state for want of sufficient repairs, protection or 
enclosure, a nuisance or dangerous to persons passing by or 
dwelling or working in the neighbourhood, the Commissioner 
may by notice in writing require the owner or part-owner or 
person claiming to be the owner or part-owner thereof or falling 
any of them, the occupier thereof, to remove the same or may 
require him to repair protect or enclose the same in such 
manner as he thinks necessary and if the danger is, in the 
opinion of the Commissioner, imminent, he shall forthwith take 
such steps as he thinks necessary to avert the same. 

316. The Commissioner may, by notice in writing require the 
owner or part-owner, or person claiming to be the owner or 
part-owner of any land or building, or the lessee or the person 
claiming to be the lessee of any such land which by reason of 
disuse or disputed ownership of other cause, as remained 
unoccupied and has become the resort of the idle and disorderly 
person or of persons who have no ostensible means of 
subsistence or cannot give satisfactory account of themselves or 
is used for gaming or immoral purposes or otherwise occasions 
or is likely to occasion of nuisance, to secure and enclose the 
same within such time as may be specified in the notice. 

CHAPTER-XVII 

EXTINCTION AND PREVENTION OF FIRE 

317. For the prevention and extinction of fire, the Corporation 
may, and if the Government so directs shall, establish and 
maintain a fire brigades, and provide implements, machinery or 
means of communicating intelligence for the efficient discharge 
of their duties by the brigade. 

318. (1) On the occasion of a fire in the Municipal area any 
Magistrate, the Commissioner of the Corporation, any member 
of a fire brigade maintained by the Corporation directing the 
operations of men belonging to the brigade, and any police 
officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector may- 

(a) remove or order the removal of any person who by his 
presence interferes with or impedes the operations for 
extinguishing the fire or for saving life or property; 

(b) close any street or passage in or near which any fire is 
burning; 

(c) for the purpose of extinguishing the fire break into or 
though or pull down, or cause to be broken into or 
through or pulled down or used for the passage of 
houses or other appliances, any premises; 

(d) cause mains and pipes to be shut off so as to give 
greater pressure of water in or near the place where the 


Limitation on 
operation of this 
Chapter. 


Provision of 
municipal markets 
and slaughter houses. 


Use of Municipal 
markets. 


Private markets and 
slaughter houses. 


fire has occurred; 

(e) call on the persons incharge of any fire engine to render 
such assistance as may be possible; 

(f) generally, take such measures as may appear necessary 
for the preservation of life or property, 

when any Government building is endangered by fire, the 
officer of the Public Works Department for the time being 
incharge of the building may also exercise the powers 
conferred under this sub-section. 

(2) No person shall be liable to pay damages for any act 
done by him under sub-section (1) in good faith. 

(3) Any damage done in the exercise of a power conferred 
or a duty imposed by this section, shall be deemed to be 
damaged by fire within the meaning of any policy of insurance 
against fire. 

319. The power conferred by the last foregoing section shall be 
subject to any regulations, conditions or restrictions which may 
be imposed by the rules. 

CHAPTER-XVIII 

MARKETS, SLAUGHTER HOUSES, TRADES AND 
OUTPATIENTS 

320. (1) The Commissioner, when authorised by the 
Corporation in this behalf may provide and maintain municipal 
markets and slaughter houses in such number as he thinks fit 
together with stalls, shops, sheds, pens and other buildings and 
conveniences for the use of persons carrying on trade or 
business in, or frequenting such markets or slaughter houses 
and may provide and maintain in such markets, buildings and 
places, machines, weights, scales and measures for the 
weighment or measurement of goods sold therein. 

(2) Municipal markets and slaughter houses shall be 
under the control of the Commissioner who may at any time, by 
public notice, close any municipal market or slaughter house or 
any part thereof. 

321. (1) No person shall, without the general or special 
permission in writing of the Commissioner, sell or expose for 
the sale of any animal or article in any municipal market. 

(2) Any person contravening the provisions of sub-section (1), 
and any animal or article exposed for sale by such person, may 
be summarily removed from the market by or under the orders 
of the Commissioner or any officer or employee of the 
Corporation authorised by the Commissioner in this behalf. 

322. (1) No place other than a municipal market shall be used 
as a market, unless such place has been licensed as a market by 
the Commissioner. 

(2) No place other than a municipal slaughter house 


Conditions of grant of 
licence for private 
market. 


Prohibition of 
keeping markets open 
without Licence etc. 


Prohibition of use of 
unlicensed markets. 


Prohibition of 
business and trade. 


shall be used as slaughter house: 

Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be 
deemed- 

(a) to restrict the slaughter of any animal in any 
place on the occasion of any religious festival or 
ceremony, subject to such conditions as the 
Commissioner may, by public or special notice, 
impose in this behalf; or 

(b) to prevent the Commissioner, with the sanction 
of the Corporation, from setting apart place for 
the slaughter of animals in accordance with 
religious custom. 

323. (1) The Commissioner may charge such fees as he thinks 
fit to impose for the grant of a licence to any person to open a 
private market and may grant such licence subject to such 
conditions, consistent with this Act and any bye-laws made 
thereunder, as he thinks tit to impose. 

(2) When the Commissioner refuses to grant any licence, 
he shall record a brief statement of the reasons for such refusal. 

(3) The Commissioner may, with the previous approval 
of the Corporation and for reasons to be recorded, suspend a 
licence in respect of a private market for such period as he 
thinks tit or cancel such licence: 

Provided that no such licence shall be cancelled without 
giving an opportunity to the licence of being heard. 

(4) A private market of which the licence has been 
suspended or cancelled as aforesaid, shall be closed with effect 
from such date as may be specified in the order of suspension 
or cancellation. 

324. (1) No person shall keep open for public use any market in 
respect of which a licence is required by or under this Act 
without obtaining a licence therefore or while the licence 
therefore is suspended or after the same has been cancelled. 

(2) When a licence to open a private market is granted or 
refused or is suspended or cancelled, the Commissioner shall 
cause a notice of the grant, refusal, suspension or cancellation 
to be posted in such language or languages as he thinks 
necessary in some conspicuous place by or near the entrance to 
the place to which the notice relates. 

325. No person knowing that any market has been opened to 
the public without a licence having been obtained thereof when 
such licence is required by or under this Act or that the licence 
granted therefore is for the time being suspended or that it has 
been cancelled, shall sell or expose for sale any animal or 
article in such market. 

326. (1) No animal or article shall be sold or exposed for sale 

within a rli<jtanrp nf nrp hnnrlrprl varrk nf anv tminirinal rnarkpf 


Levy of stallages, 
rents and fees. 


Stallage rents etc. to 
be published/ 


Butcher’s 
fishmonger’s and 
poulterer’s licence. 


within a distance of one hundred yards of any municipal market 
or licensed private market without the pennission of the 
Commissioner. 

(2) Any person contravening the provision of sub-section 
(1) and any animal or article exposed for sale by such person 
may be summarily removed by or under the order of the 
Commissioner or any Officer or employee of the Corporation 
appointed by him in this behalf. 

327. The Commissioner, with the previous approval of the 
Corporation, may- 

(a) charge such stallages, rents or fees as may from time to 
time be fixed by him in this behalf, - 

(i) for the occupation or use of any stall, shop, 
stand, shed or pen in a municipal market or 
municipal slaughter house; 

(ii) for the right to expose articles for sale in a 
municipal market; 

(iii) for the use of machines, weights, sealses and 
measure provided for in any municipal market; 
and 

(iv) for the right to slaughter animals in any 
municipal slaughter house; and for the feed of 
such animals before they are ready for slaughter; 
or 

(b) put up to public auction or dispose of by private sale, 
the privilege of occupying or using any stall, shop, 
stand, shed or pen in a municipal market or municipal 
slaughter house for such period and on such conditions 
as he may think fit. 

328. A copy of the table of stallages, rents and fees, if any, 
chargeable in any municipal market or municipal slaughter 
house and of the bye-laws made under this Act for the purpose 
of regulating the use of such market or slaughter house printed 
in such language or languages as the Commissioner may direct, 
shall be affixed in some conspicuous place in the market or 
slaughter house. 

329. (1) No person shall without or otherwise than in 
conformity with a licence from the Commissioner carry on the 
trade of a butcher, fishmonger, poulterer or importer of flesh 
intended for human food or use any place for the sale of flesh, 
fish or poultry intended for human food: 

Provided that no licence shall be required for any place 
used for the sale or storage for sale of preserved flesh or fish 
contained in air tight or hermetically sealed recentacles. 

(2) The Commissioner may, by order and subject to such 
conditions as to supervision and inspection as he thinks fit to 


Factory, etc. not to be 
established without 
permission of 
Commissioner. 


Premises not to be 
used for certain 
purposes without 
licence. 


impose, grant a licence or may, by order, refuse, for reasons to 
be recorded, to grant the same. 

(3) Every such licence shall expire at the end of the year 
for which it is granted or at such earlier date as the 
Commissioner may, for special reasons, specify in the licence. 

(4) If any place is used for the sale of flesh, fish or poultry 
in contravention of the provisions of this section, the 
Commissioner may stop the use thereof by such means as he 
may consider necessary. 

330. (1) No person shall, without the previous permissions in 
writing of the Commissioner, establish in any premises, or 
materially alter, enlarge of extend, any factory, workshop or 
trade premises in which it is intended to employ steam, 
electricity, water or other mechanical power. 

(2) The Commissioner may refuse to give such 
pennission, if he is of the opinion that the establishment, 
alteration, enlargement or extension of such factory, workshop 
or trade premises, in the proposed position would be 
objectionable by reason of the density of the population in the 
neighbourhood thereof, or would be a nuisance to the 
inhabitants of the neighbourhood. 

311. (1) No person shall use or pennit to be used any premises 
for any of the following purposes without or otherwise than in 
conformity with the terms of a licence granted by the 
Commissioner in this behalf, namely: - 

(a) any of the purposes specified in PART-I of the Second 
Schedule; 

(b) any purpose which is, in the opinion of the 
Commissioner; dangerous of life; in health or property 
or likely to create a nuisance; 

(c) keeping houses, cattle or other quadruped animals or 
birds for transportation, sale or hire or for sale of the 
produce thereof: or 

(d) storing any of the articles specified in Part-II of the 
Second Schedule except for domestic use of those 
articles: 

Provided that the Corporation may declare that premises in 
which the aggregate quality of articles stored for sale does not 
exceed such quantity as may be prescribed by bye-laws in 
respect of any such articles, shall be exempted from the 
operation of clause (d). 

(2) In prescribing the terms of a licence granted under this 
section for the use of premises as mills or iron yards or for 
similar purposes the Commissioner may, when he thinks fit, 
require the licence to provide a space or passage within the 
premises for cards for loading and unloading purposes. 


Seizure of certain 
animals. 


Power of the 
Commissioner to 
prevent use of 
premises in particular 
are for purposes 
referred to in section 
331. 


(3) The Corporation shall fix a scale of fees to be paid in 
respect of premises licenced under sub-section (1): 

24j-s|. sls^sjcslsslsslc^slsj 

332. (1) If any horses, cattle or other quadruped animals or 
birds are kept on any premises in contravention of the provision 
of section 331 or are found abandoned and roaming or tethered 
or any street or public place or on any land belonging to the 
Corporation, the Commissioner or any officer empowered by 
him may seize them and may cause them to be impounded or 
removed to such place as may be appointed by the Government 
or the Corporation for this purpose and cost of seizure of these 
animals or birds and of impounding or removing them and of 
feeding and watering them, shall be recoverable by sale or 
auction of these animals or birds: 

Provide d that any one claiming such animals or birds 
may, within seven days of the seizure get them released on his 
paying all expenses incurred by the Commissioner in seizing, 
impounding or removing and in feeding and watering such 
animals or birds, and on his producing a licence for keeping 
these animals and birds issued under the provisions of section 
331. 

(2) Whenever the Commissioner is of the opinion that the 
user of any premises for any of the purposes referred to in sub- 
section (1) of section 331 is causing a nuisance and such 
nuisance should be immediately stopped the Commissioner 
may order the owner or the occupier of the premises to stop 
such nuisance within such time as may be specified in the order 
and in the event of the failure of the owner or occupier to 
comply with such order, the Commissioner may himself for by 
an officer subordinate to him, cause such user to be stopped. 

(3) Without prejudice to the foregoing provision of this 
section any person by whom or at whose instance any horses, 
cattle or other quadrupeds animals or birds are so kept, 
abandoned or tethered, shall also be punishable under this Act. 

333. (1) The Commissioner may give public notice of his 
intention to declare that in any area specified in the notice no 
person shall use any premises for any of the purposes referred 
to in sub-section (1) of section 331 which may be specified in 
such notice. 

(2) No objection to any declaration under sub-section 
(1) shall be received after a period of one month from 
the publication of the notice. 

(3) The Commissioner shall consider all objections 
received within the said period, giving any person affected by 
the notice an opportunity of being heard and may thereupon 
make a declaration in accordance with the notice published 


Licences for hawking 
article etc. 


Eating houses, etc. 
not to be used without 
licence from 
Commissioner. 


Licensing and control 
of theatre, circuses 
and places of public 
amusement. 


Power of 

Commissioner to stop 
use of premises used 
in contravention of 
licences. 


under sub-section (1), with such modifications, if any, as he 
may think fit. 

(4) every such declaration shall be published in the 
Official Gazette and in such other manner as the Commissioner 
may detennine, and shall take effect from the date of its 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

(5) No person shall, in any area specified in any 
declaration published under sub-section (4), use any premises 
for any of the purposes referred to in section 331 specified in 
the declaration and the Commissioner shall have the power to 
stop the use of any such premises by such means as he 
considers necessary. 

334. No person shall, without or otherwise than in conformity 
with the tenns of a licence granted by the Commissioner in this 
behalf: - 

(a) hawk or expose for sale in any place any article 
whatsoever, whether it be for human consumption or 
not; 

(b) use in any place his skill in any handicraft or for 
rendering service to and for the convenience of the 
public for the purpose of gain or making a living. 

335. (1) No person shall, without or otherwise than in 
conformity with the terms of a licence granted by the 
Commissioner in this behalf, keep any eating house, lodging 
house, hotel, boarding house, tea shop, coffee house, cafe, 
restaurant, refreshment room or any place where the public are 
admitted for repose or for the consumption of any food or drink 
or any place where food is sold or prepared for sale. 

(2) The Commissioner may at any time cancel or suspend any 
licence granted under sub-section (1) if he is of opinion that the 
premises covered thereby are not kept in conformity with the 
conditions of such licence or with the provisions of any bye- 
laws made in this behalf. 

336. No person shall without or otherwise than in conformity 
with the tenns of a licence granted by the Commissioner in this 
behalf, keep open any theatre, circus, cinema house, dancing 
hall or other similar place of public resort, recreation or 
amusement: 

Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to private 
performances in any such place. 

337. If the Commissioner is of opinion that any eating house, 
lodging house, hotel, boarding house, tea shop, coffee house, 
cafe, restaurant, refreshment room or other place where the 
public are admitted for repose or for consumption of any food 
or drink or where food is sold or prepared for sale or any 
theatre, circus, cinema house, dancing hall or similar other 


Power of 
Commissioner to 
inspect places where 
unlawful slaughter of 
animal etc. is 
suspected. 


Improvement 

Scheme. 


place of public resort, recreation or amusement is kept open 
without a licence or otherwise than in conformity with the 
terms of a licence granted in respect thereof, he may stop the 
use of any such premises for any such purpose for a specified 
period by such means as he may consider necessary. 

338. (1) If the Commissioner or any person authorised by him 
in this behalf has reason to believe that any animal intended for 
human consumption is being slaughtered or that the flash of any 
such animal is being sold or exposed for sale, in any place or 
manner not duly authorised under this Act, he may at any time 
by day or night without notice, inspect such places for the 
purpose of satisfying himself as the whether any provision of 
this Act or any bye-law made under this Act at the time in force 
is being contravened thereat and may seize any such animal or 
the carcass of such animal or such flesh found therein. 

(2) The Commissioner may remove and sell by auction 
or otherwise dispose of any animal or carcass of any 
animal or any flesh seized under sub-section (1). 

(3) If within one month of the seizure under sub-section 
(2) the owner of the animal, carcass or flesh fails to appear and 
prove his claim to the satisfaction of the Commissioner or if the 
owner is convicted of an offence under this Act in respect of 
such animal, carcass or flesh, the proceeds of any sale under 
sub-section (1) shall vest in the Corporation. 

(4) Any person slaughtering any animal or selling or 
exposing for sale the flesh of any such animal in any place or 
manner not duly authorised under the provisions of this Act 
shall be punishable with imprisonment upto six months and 
may be arrested by any police officer without a warrant. 

(5) No claim shall lie against any person for 
compensation for any damage necessarily caused by any entry 
or by the use of any force necessary for effecting any entry 
under this section. 

CHAPTER-XIX 

IMPROVEMENT 

339. Where the Commissioner upon information is satisfied in 
respect of any area. 

(a) that the buildings in that area are by reason of disrepair 
or sanitary defects unfit for human habitation or are by 
reason of their bad arrangement, or the narrowness or 
bad arrangement of the streets or for want of light, air, 
ventilation or proper conveniences, dangerous or 
injurious to the health of the inhabitants of the ; and 

(b) that the most satisfactory method dealing with the 
conditions in the area is the rearrangement and 
reconstruction of the streets and buildings in the area in 


Matters to be 
provided for in an 
improvement scheme. 


accordance with an improvement scheme, 
he may frame an improvement scheme in respect of the area in 
accordance with the bye-law made in this behalf. 

340. An improvement scheme may provide for all or any of the 
following matters, namely- 

(a) the acquisition by agreement or under the Land 
Acquisition Act, 1894, of any property necessary 
for or affected by the execution of the scheme; 

(b) the relaying out of any land comprised in the 
scheme; 

(c) the redistribution of sites belonging to owners of 
property comprised in the scheme; 

(d) the closure or demolition of building portions of 
buildings unfit for human habitation; 

(e) the demolition of obstructive buildings or portions 
thereof; 

(f) the construction and reconstruction of buildings; 

(g) the construction and alteration of streets; 

(h) the water supply, street lighting, drainage and other 
conveniences; 

(i) the provision of urban amenities and facilities such 
as parks, gardens, playgrounds; 

(j) the sanitary arrangements required for the area 
comprised in the scheme; 

(k) the provision of accommodation for any class of the 
inhabitants; 

(l) the provision of facilities for communication; 

(m) the sale, letting or exchange of any property 
comprised in the scheme. 

(n) urban forestry, protection of the environment and 
promotion of ecological aspects; 

(o) urban poverty alleviation; 

(p) promotion of cultural, educational and aesthetic 
aspects; 

(q) cattle ponds, prevention of cruelty to animals; 

(r) public amenities including street light, parking, lots, 
bus stops and public conveniences; and 

(s) any other matter for which, in the opinion of the 
Commissioner it is expedient to make provision 
with a view to the improvement of the area to 
which the scheme relates. 

(2) Where any land is designated in an improvement 
scheme as subject to acquisition or is required by the scheme 
to be kept as an open space, then, if at the expiration of ten 
years from the date of sanction of the scheme by the 
Government under sub-section (2) of section 341, the land is 


Submission of 
improvement scheme 
to the Corporation for 
approval and to the 
Government for 
sanction. 


Publication of the 
notice after scheme is 
sanctioned. 


Rehousing Scheme. 


Improvement scheme 
and rehousing scheme 
to comply with 
master plan and zonal 
development plan. 


not acquired by the Commissioner, the owner of the land may 
serve on the Commissioner, a notice requiring his interest in 
the land to be so acquitted. 

(3) If the Commissioner fails to acquire the land within a 
period of six months from the receipt of the notice, the 
improvement scheme shall have effect after the expiration of 
the said six months as if the land were not designated as 
subject to acquisition by the Commissioner or were not 
required to be kept as an open space. 

(4) The Commissioner may prepare a scheme in the slum 
improvement and upgradation of the area as provided in the 
Punjab Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1961 
(Punjab Act 24 of 1961). 

341, (1) Every improvement scheme shall, as soon as may be, 
after it has been framed, be submitted by the Commissioner for 
approval to the Corporation and the Corporation may either 
approve the scheme without modification s or with such 
modifications as it may consider necessary or reject the scheme 
with direction to the Commissioner to have a fresh scheme 
framed according to such directions. 

(2) No improvement schemes approved by the 
Corporation under sub-section (1) shall be valid unless it has 
been sanctioned by the Government. 

342, (1) After an improvement scheme is sanctioned by the 
Government, the Commissioner shall prepare a notice stating- 

(a) the fact that the scheme has been sanctioned; 

(b) the boundaries of the area comprised in the scheme; and 

(c) the place at which particular of the scheme, a map of the 
area comprised in the scheme and a statement of the 
land which it is proposed to acquire may be seen. 

(2) The Commissioner shall cause the aforesaid notice to be 
published in the Official Gazette and also in the manner 
specified in section 360. 

343. The Commissioner while framing an improvement scheme 
under this Chapter for any area may also frame a scheme 
(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the rehousing scheme) for 
the construction, maintenance and management of such and so 
many buildings as he may consider necessary for providing 
accommodation for persons who are likely to be displaced by 
the execution of the improvement scheme. 

344. No improvement scheme or rehousing scheme framed 
under this chapter after development plan for the Municipal 
area or a zonal development plan for any part thereof has been 
prepared in accordance with law shall be valid unless such 
scheme is in conformity with the provision of the development 
plan or the zonal development plan. 


Provision of housing 
accommodation for 
the economically 
weaker sections. 


Declaration of 
controlled area. 


345. If the Corporation, upon consideration of a report from the 
Commissioner or any other information is satisfied that it is 
expedient to provide housing accommodation for the 
economically weaker section in any area and that such 
accommodation can be provided without making an 
improvement scheme, the construction shall cause that area to 
be defined on a plan and pass a resolution authorizing the 
Commissioner to provide such accommodation- 

(a) by the erection of buildings or by attachment of land 
belonging to the Corporation or of land acquired by the 
Corporation for the purpose; 

(b) by the conversion of any buildings belonging to the 
Corporation into dwellings for the economically weaker 
sections. 

CHAPTER-XX 

DECLARATION AND PUBLICATION OF PLANS OF 
CONTROLLED AREA 

346. '[“(1) Notwithstanding any law for the time being in 
force, the Commissioner may, with the previous approval of the 
Government, by notification, declare the whole or any part of 
the area within the Corporation to be a controlled area provided 
that the same has not been declared as controlled area under the 
Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of 
Unregulated Development Act, 1963 (Act 41 of 1963)” 

(2) The Commissioner shall not later than six months 
from the date of declaration under sub-section (1), or 
within such further period as the Government may 
allow, prepare plans showing the controlled area and 
signifying therein the nature of restrictions and 
conditions proposed to be made applicable to the 
controlled area and submit the plans to the Government 
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers 
specified in sub-section (2) above, the plans may provide for 
any one or more of the following matters, namely: - 

(a) the division of any site into plots for the 
erection or re-erection of any building and the 
manner in which such plots may be transferred 
to intending purchasers or lessees;. 

(b) the allotment or reservation of land for roads, 
open spaces, gardens, recreation grounds, 
schools, market and other public purposes; 

(c) the development of any site into a colony and 
the restrictions and conditions subject to which 
such development may be undertaken or 
carried out; 

(d) the erection or re-erection of buildings on any 


site and the restrictions and conditions in 
regard to the open spaces to be maintained in 
or around buildings and the height and 
character of buildings; 

(e) the alignment of buildings on any site; 

(f) the architectural features of the elevation or 
frontage of buildings to be build on any site; 

(g) the amenities to be provided in relation to any 
site or buildings on such site whether before or 
after the erection or re-erection of buildings on 
such site and the person or authority by whom 
such amenities are to be provided; 

(h) the prohibition or restriction regarding erection 
or re-erection of shops, workshops, 
warehouses or factories or buildings of a 
specified architectural feature or buildings 
designed for particular purposes in any 
locality; 

(i) the maintenance of walls, fences, hedges or 
any other structural or architectural 
construction and the height at which they shall 
be maintained; 

(j) the restrictions regarding the use of any site for 
purposes other than the erection or re-erection 
of buildings; 

(k) any other matter which is necessary for the 
proper planning of any controlled area and for 
preventing buildings being erected or re- 
erected haphazardly in such area. 

(4) The Government may either approve the plans 
without modification s or with such modifications as it 
may consider necessary or reject the plans with 
directions to the Commissioner to prepare fresh plans 
according to such directions. 

(5) The Commissioner shall cause to be published by 
notification the plans approved by Government under sub- 
section (4) for the purpose of inviting objections thereon. 

(6) Any person within thirty days from the date of 
publication of the notification under sub-section (5) send to the 
Commissioner, his objections and suggestions in writing, if 
any, in respect of such plans and the Commissioner shall 
consider the same and forward them with his recommendations 
to the Government within a period of sixty days from the 
aforesaid date. 

(7) After considering the objections, suggestions and 
representations, if any, and the recommendations of the 


Erection or re- 
erection of building 
etc. in controlled area. 


Prohibition on use of 
land in controlled 
area. 


Application of 
permission or licence 
and the grant or 
refusal thereof. 


Commissioner thereon the Government shall decide as to the 
final plans showing the controlled area and signifying therein 
the nature of restrictions and conditions applicable to the 
controlled area and publish the same in the Official Gazette and 
in such other manner as may be prescribed. 

(8) Provision may be made by rules made in this behalf 
with respect to the fonn and content of the plans and with 
respect to the procedure to be followed, and any other matter in 
connection with the preparation, submission and approval of 
the plans. 

(9) Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, the 
Government may direct the Commissioner to furnish such 
information as the Government may require for the purpose of 
approving the plans submitted to it under this section. 

347. Except as provided hereinafter, no person shall erect or re- 
erect any building or make or extend any excavation or lay out 
any means of access to a road in a controlled area save in 
accordance with the plans and the restrictions and conditions 
referred to in section 346 and with the previous permission of 
the Commissioner. 

348. (1) No land within the controlled area shall, except with 
the permission of the Commissioner be used for purposes, other 
than those for which it was used on the date of publication of 
the notification under sub-section (1) of section 346 and no land 
within such controlled area shall be used for the purposes of a 
charcoal-kiln, pottery-kiln, lime-kiln, brick-kiln or brick-filled 
or for quarrying stone, bajri, kanker or manufacturing of surkhi 
or for crushing stone or for other similar extraction or ancillary 
operations except under and in accordance with the conditions 
of a licence to be obtained from the Commissioner on payment 
of such fees and under such conditions as may be prescribed. 

(2) The licence so granted shall be valid for one year may 
be renewed annually on payment of such fees as may be 
prescribed. 

349. (1) Every person desiring to obtain the permission or 
licence referred to in sections 347 and 348 shall make an 
application in writing to the Commissioner in such fonn and 
containing such infonnation in respect of the land, building, 
excavation or means of access to a road to which the 
application relates as may be prescribed. 

(2) On receipt of such application the Commissioner, 
after making such enquiry as he may consider 
necessary, shall by order in writing either- 
(a) grant the pennission or licence subject to such 

conditions, if any, as may be specified, in the 
order; or 


(b) refuse to grant such permission or licence; 

provided that the order of refusal shall not be 
passes unless the applicant has been afforded an 
opportunity of being heard. 

(3) If, at the expiration of a period of three months after 
an application under sub-section (1) has been made to 
the Commissioner, no order in writing has been passed 
by the Commissioner the permission shall be deemed to 
have been granted without the imposition of any 
conditions but subject to the restrictions and conditions 
signified in the plans published in the Official Gazette 
under section 346. 

(4) The Commissioner shall maintain such registers as 
may be prescribed with sufficient particulars of all such cases in 
which pennission or licence is given or deemed to have been 
given or refused by him under this section, and the said register 
shall be available for inspection without charge by all persons 
interested and such persons shall be entitled to take extract 
therefrom. 

Appeal- 350. Any person aggrieved or affected by an order of the 

Commissioner under sub-section (2) of section 349 may within 
sixty days from the date of such order, prefer an appeal to the 
Government and the order of the Government on such appeal 
shall be final. 

Offences and 26[350A (1) Any person who- 

penalties. (a) erects or re-erects any building or makes or extends any 

excavation or lays out any means of access to a road in 
contravention of the provisions of section 347 or in 
contravention of any conditions imposed by an order 
under section 349 or section 350; or 
(b) uses any land in contravention of the provision of sub- 
section (1) of section 348 or section 350, 
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may 
extend to three years or with a fine of not less than ten thousand 
rupees which may extend to fifty thousand rupees or with both 
and, in the case of a continuing contravention, with a further 
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees for every day 
after the date of the first conviction during which he is proved 
to have persisted in the contravention. 

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section 
(1), the Commissioner may, by notice, served by post and if a 
person avoids service, or is not available for service of notice, 
or refuses to accept service, then by affixing a copy of it on the 
outer door or some other conspicuous part of such premises, or 
in such other manner as may be prescribed, call upon any 
person who has committed a breach of the provisions referred 


Duty of police 
officers. 


Power to arrest. 


to in the said sub-section to stop further construction and to 
appear and show cause why he should not be ordered to its 
original state or to bring it in conformity with the provisions of 
the Act or the rules, as the case may be, any building or land in 
respect of which a contravention such as described in the said 
sub-section has been committed, and if such person fails to 
show cause to the satisfaction of the Commissioner within a 
period of seven days, the Commissioner may pass an order 
requiring him to restore such land or building to its original 
state or to bring it in conformity with the provisions of the Act 
or the rules, as the case may be, within a further period of seven 
days. 

(3) If the order made under sub-section (2) is not 
carried out within the specified period, the Commissioner may 
himself at the expiry of the period of this order, take such 
measures as may appear necessary to give effect to the order 
and the cost of such measures shall, if not paid on demand 
being made to him, be recoverable from such person as arrears 
of land revenue: 

Provided that even before the expiry of seven days 
period mentioned in the order under sub-section (2), if the 
Commissioner is satisfied that instead of stopping the erection 
or re-erection of the building or making or extending of the 
excavation or laying out of the means of access to a road, as the 
case may be, the person continues with the contravention, the 
Commissioner may himself take such measures as may appear 
necessary to give effect to the order and the cost of such 
measures, shall, if not paid on demand being made to him, be 
recoverable from such person as arrears of land revenue. 

350B It shall be the duty of every police officer- 

id) to communicate without delay to the Commissioner 
or any other officer authorized in writing by him, in 
this behalf, any information which he receives of a 
design to commit or of the commission of any 
offence against this Act or any rule or regulation 
made thereunder; and 

! ! to assist the Commissioner or any other officer 
authorized in writing by him, in this behalf, in the 
lawful exercise of any power vested in the 
Commissioner or any other officer authorized in 
writing by him, in this behalf, under this Act or any 
rule or regulation made thereunder. 

350C (1) A police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector 
shall arrest any person who commits, in his view, any offence 
against this Act or any rule made thereunder, if the name and 
address of such person be unknown to him and if such person, 


Commissioner to 
carry out functions of 
the Director. 


Signature, conditions, 
duration, suspension, 
revocation, etc. of 
licences and written 
permissions. 


on demand declines to give his name and address, or gives such 
name or address which such officer has reason to believe to be 
false. 

(2) The person so arrested shall, without unavoidable 
delay be produced before the Magistrate authorized to try the 
offence for which the arrest has been made, and no person, so 
arrested, shall be detained in custody for a period exceeding 
twenty-four hours without an order from the above mentioned 
Magistrate.]” 

sf:sf:s|ssf:sfcsf:sf:sf:sf:sf:sf:sf:sfcsf: 

CHAPTER-XXI 

POWERS, PROCEDURE, OFFENCES AND PENALTIES 
352. (1) Whenever is provided in this Act or any bye-law made 
thereunder that a licence or a written pennission may be 
granted for any purpose, such licence or written pennission 
shall be signed by the Commissioner or by the Officer 
empowered to grant the same under this Act or the bye laws 
made thereunder or by any Corporation Officer authorised by 
the Commissioner and shall specify, in addition to any other 
matter required to be specified under any other provisions of 
this Act or any provision of any bye-law made thereunder- 

(a) the date of the grant thereof; 

(b) the purpose and the period, if any, for which it is 
granted; 

(c) restrictions or conditions, if any, subject to which it is 
granted; 

(d) the name and address of the person to whom it is 
granted; and 

(e) the fee, if any, paid for the licence or written 
pennission. 

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this Act or any bye-law 
made thereunder, for every such licence or written permission 
a fee may be charged at such rate as may from time to time be 
fixed by the Commissioner with the sanction of the 
Corporation and such fee shall be payable by the person to 
whom the licence or written permission is granted. 

(3) Save as otherwise provided in this Act or any bye-law 
made thereunder any licence or written pennission granted 
under this Act or any bye-law made thereunder may at any 
time be suspended or revoked by the Commissioner or by the 
officer by whom it was granted, if he is satisfied that it has 
been secured by the grantee through misrepresentation or 
fraud, if any, of its restrictions or conditions has been infringed 
or evaded by the grantee, or if the grantee has been convicted 
for the contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or any 


bye-law made thereunder relating to nay matter for which the 
licence or permission has been granted; 

Provided that- 

(a) before making any order of suspension or revocation, 
reasonable opportunity should be afforded to the 
grantee of the licence or the written permission to 
show cause why it should not be suspended or 
revoked; 

(b) every such order shall contain a brief statement of the 
reasons for the suspension or revocation of the 
licence or the written permission. 

(4) When any such licence or written pennission is 
suspended or revoked or when the period for which the same 
was granted has expired, the grantee shall, for all purposes of 
this Act or any bye-law made thereunder, be deemed to be 
without a licence or written permission until such time as the 
order suspending or revoking the licence or written pennission 
until such time as the order suspending or revoking the licence 
or written pennission recinded until the license or written 
pennission is renewed. 

(5) Every grantee of any licence or written pennission 
granted under this Act shall at all reasonable times, while such 
licence or written pennission remains in force if so required by 
the Commissioner or the authority by whom it was granted, 
produce such licence or written pennission. 

Power of entry and 353. The Commissioner or any Corporation officer or other 
inspection. Corporation employee authorised by him in this behalf or 

empowered in this behalf by or under any provision of this Act 
may enter into or upon and land or building with or without 
assistants and workmen- 

(a) for the purpose of ascertaining whether there is or has 
been on or in connection with the land or building any 
contravention of the provisions of this Act or any bye- 
law made thereunder; 

(b) for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not 
circumstances exist which would authorise or require 
the Commissioner, or any Corporation officer or 
employee authorised or empowered in this behalf to 
take any action or execute any work under this Act or 
any bye-law thereunder; 

(c) for the purpose of taking any action or executing any 
work authorised or required by this Act or any bye-law 
made thereunder; 

(d) to make any inquiry, inspection, examination, 
measurement, valuation or survey authorised or required 
by or under this Act or necessary for the proper 


Power to enter land, 
adjoining land in 
relation to any work. 


Breaking into 
building. 


Time of making 
entry. 

Consent ordinarily to 
be obtained. 


administration of this Act; 

(e) generally for the purpose of efficient discharge of the 
functions by any of the municipal authorities under this 
Act or any bye law made thereunder. 

354. (1) The Commissioner, or any person authorised by him in 
this behalf or empowered in this behalf by or under any 
provision of this Act, may enter or any land within thirty-five 
meteres of any work authorised by or under this Act with or 
without assistants and workmen for the purpose of depositing 
thereon any soil, gravels, stone or other materials or for 
obtaining access to such work or for any other purposes 
connected with the execution of the same. 

(2) The person so authorised shall, before entering on 
any such land state the purpose thereof, and shall, if so 
requires by the owner or occupier thereof, fence off so 
much of the land as may be required for such purpose. 

(3) The person so authorised shall, in exercising any 
power conferred by this section, do as little damage as may be, 
and compensation shall be payable by the Corporation in 
accordance with bye-laws made in this behalf to the owner or 
occupier of land or to both for any such damage, whether 
pennanent or temporary. 

355. (1) It shall be lawful for the Commissioner, or any person 
authorised by him in this behalf or empowered in this behalf by 
or, under any provision of this Act to make any entry into any 
place, and to open or cause to be opened any door, gate or other 
barrier- 

(a) if he considers the opening thereof necessary for the 
purpose of such entry; and 

(b) if the owner or occupier is absent or being present, 
refuses to open such door, gate or barrier. 

(2) Before making any entry into any place as specified 
under sub-section (1) or opening or causing to be opened any 
such door, gate or other barrier, the Commissioner, or the 
person authorised or empowered in this behalf, shall call upon 
two or more respectable inhabitants of the locality in which the 
place to be entered into is situate, to witness the entry or 
opening and may issue an order in writing to them or any of 
them so to do. 

(3) A report shall be made to the Corporation as soon as 
may be after any entry has been into any place or any door, 
gate or other barrier has been opened under this section. 

356. Save as otherwise provided in this Act or any bye-law 
made thereunder no entry authorised by or under this Act shall 
be made except between the hours of sunrise and sunset. 

357. Save as otherwise provided in this Act or any bye-laws 

marlp thprpunrlpr nn land nr Kmirlincr shall hp pntprprl intn 


Regard to be had to 
social or religious 
usages. 


Prohibition of 
obstruction or 
molestation in 
execution of work. 


Public notice how to 
be made known. 


Newspaper in which 
advertisement of 
notices to be 
published. 


made thereunder, no land or building shall be entered into 
without the consent of the occupier, or if the re is no occupier, 
or the owner thereof, and no such entry shall be made without 
giving the said owner or occupier, as the case may be, not less 
than twenty-four hours written notice of the intention to make 
such entry: 

Provided that no such notice shall be necessary if the 
place to be inspected is a factory, workshop or trade premises 
or a place used for any of the purposes specified in section 331 
or a stable for horses or a shed for cattle or a latrine or urinal or 
a work under construction or for the purpose of ascertaining 
whether any animal intended for human food is slaughtered in 
that place in contravention of this Act or any bye-law made 
thereunder. 

358. When any place used as a human dwelling is entered into 
under this Act due regard shall be paid to the social and 
religious customs and usages of the occupants of the place 
entered into and no apartment in the actual occupancy of a 
female, shall be entered into or broken open until she has been 
informed that she is at liberty to withdraw and every reasonable 
facility has been afforded to her for withdrawing. 

359. No person shall obstruct or molest any person authorised 
or empowered by or under this Act or any person with whom 
the Corporation or the Commissioner has lawfully contracted, 
in the execution of his duty or of anything which he is 
authorised or empowered or required to do by virtue or in 
consequence of any of the provisions of this Act or any bye-law 
made thereunder, or in fulfillment of his contract, as the case 
may be. 

360. Every public notice, given under this Act or any bye-law 
made thereunder, shall be in writing under the signature of the 
Commissioner or of any Corporation Officer authorised by him 
in this behalf and shall be widely made known in the locality to 
be affected thereby, by affixing copies thereof in conspicuous 
public places within the said locality of by publishing the same 
by beat of drum or by advertisement in local newspaper or by 
any two or more of these means and by any other means that 
the appropriate municipal authority may think fit. 

361. Whenever it is provided by this Act or any bye-law made 
thereunder that notice shall be given by advertisement in local 
newspaper or that a notification or infonnation shall be 
published in local newspaper, such notice, notification or 
infonnation shall be inserted if practicable, in at least two 
newspapers in such languages as the Corporation may from 
time to time specify in this behalf: 

Provided that if the Corporation publishers a Municipal 


Proof of consent etc. 
of Commissioner, etc. 


Notices etc. to fix 
reasonable time. 


Signature on notices 
etc. may be stamped. 


Notice etc. by whom 
to be served or issued. 


Serving of notice etc. 


journal a publication in that journal shall be deemed to be a 
publication in a newspaper of the language in which the said 
journal may be published. 

362. Whenever under this Act or any rule, regulation or bye- 
law made thereunder the doing of or the omission to do 
anything or the validity of anything depends upon the approval, 
sanction, consent, concurrence, declaration, opinion or 
satisfaction of the Commissioner, or of any Corporation officer, 
a written document signed by the Commissioner or officer 
purporting to convey or set forth, such approval, sanction, 
consent, concurrence, declaration, opinion, or satisfaction shall 
be sufficient evidence thereof. 

363. Where any notice, bill, order or requisition issued or made 
under this Act or any rule, regulation or bye-law made 
thereunder requires anything to be done for the doing of which 
no time is fixed in this Act or the rule, regulation or bye-law, 
the notice, bill, order or requisition shall specify a reasonable 
time for doing the same. 

364. (1) Every licence, written permission, notice, bill, 
summons or other document which is required by this Act or 
any rule, regulation or bye-law made thereunder, to bear the 
signature of the Commissioner or of any Corporation Officer, 
shall be deemed to be properly signed if it bears a facsimile of 
the signature of the Commissioner or officer, as the case may 
be, stamped thereupon. 

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to apply to a 
cheque drawn upon the Corporation Fund under section 75 and 
such classes of documents as may be prescribed. 

365. All notices, bills, summons and other documents required 
by this Act or any rule, regulation or bye-laws made thereunder 
to be served upon or issued to any person, shall be served or 
issued by municipal officers or other Corporation employee or 
by other persons authorised by the Commissioner. 

366. (1) Every notice, bill, summons, order, requisition or other 
document required or authorised by this Act or any rule, 
regulation or bye-law made thereunder to be served or issued 
by or on behalf of the Corporation or by the Commissioner or 
any Corporation Officer on any person shall, save as otherwise 
provided in this Act or such rule, regulation or bye-law, be 
deemed to be duly served: - 

(a) where the person to be served is a company, if the 
document is addressed to a Director or the Secretary of the 
Company at its registered office or at its principal office or 
palce of business and is either- 

(i) sent by registered post; 

(ii) delivered at the registered office or at the 


principal office or place of business of the 
company; 

(b) where the person to be served is a partnership firm, if 
the documents is addressed to the partnership firm at its 
principal place of business, identifying it by the name or style 
under which its business is carried on, and is either- 

(i) sent by registered post; 

(ii) delivered at the said place of business; 

(c) where the person to be served is a public body or a 
coporation, society or other body if the document is addressed 
to the Secretary, Treasurer or other head officer of that body 
Corporation or society at its principal office, and is either, - 

(i) sent by registered post; or 

(ii) delivered at that office; 

(d) In any other case, if the document is addressed to the 
person to be served and- 

(i) is given or tendered to him; or 

(ii) if such person cannot be found; is affixed on 
some conspicuous part of his last known place 
or residence or business, if within the Municipal 
area, or is given or tendered to some adult 
member of his family or is affixed on some 
conspicuous part of the land or building, if any, 
to which it relates; or 

(iii) is sent by registered post to that person. 

(2) Any document which is required or authorised to be 
served on the owner or occupier of any land or building may be 
addressed “the owner” or “the occupier” as the case may be, of 
that land or building (naming that land or building) without 
further name or description, and shall be deemed to be duly 
served- 

(a) If the document so addressed is sent or 
delivered in accordance with clause (b) of 
sub-section (1); or 

(b) if the document so addressed or a copy 
thereof so addressed, is delivered to some 
person on the land or building to whom it can 
be delivered, is affixed to some conspicuous 
part of the land or building. 

(3) Where a document is served on a partnership firm in 
accordance with this section, the document shall be deemed to 
be served on each partner. 

(4) For the purpose of enabling any document to be served 
on the owner of any premises the Commissioner may by notice 
in writing require the occupier of the premises to state the name 


Service of bills for tax 
or notice or demand 
by ordinary post. 


Power in case of non- 
compliance with 
notice etc. 


Liability of occupier 
to pay in default of 
owner. 


and address of the owner thereof. 

(5) Where the person on whom a document is to be served 
is a minor, the service upon his guardian or any adult member 
of his family shall be deemed to be service upon the minor. 

(6) Nothing in section 364 and section 365 and in this 
section shall apply to any summons issued under this Act by a 
court. 

(7) A servant is not a member of the family within the 
meaning of this section. 

367. Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 365 and 
366 a bill for any tax or a notice of demand may be served by 
sending it by ordinary post with a pre-paid letter under a 
certificate of posting addressed to the appropriate person 
specified in section 366 at his last known place of residence or 
business and in proving the serving of every bill or notice so 
sent, it shall be sufficient to prove that the matter was properly 
addressed and posted under a certificate of posting. 

368. In the event of a non-compliance with the terms of any 
notice, order or requisition issued to any person under this Act 
or any rule, regulation or bye-laws made thereunder, requiring 
such person to execute any work or to do any act, it shall be 
lawful for the authority or officer at whose instance, the notice, 
order or requisition has been issued, whether or not the person 
in default is liable to punishment for such default or had been 
prosecuted or sentenced to any punishment therefore, after 
giving notice in writing to such person, to take such action or 
such steps as may be necessary for the completion of the act or 
the work required to be done or executed by such person and all 
the expenses incurred on such account shall be payable to the 
Commissioner on demand and if not paid within ten days after 
such demand, shall be recoverable as an arrear of tax under this 
Act. 

369. (1) If any notice, order or requisition has been issued to 
any person in respect of property of which be is the owner, the 
authority or Officer at whose instance such notice, order or 
requisition has been issued, may require the occupier of such 
property or any part thereof to pay to him, instead of to the 
owner, any rent payable by him in respect of such property as it 
falls due up to the amount recoverable from the owner under 
section 366: 

Provided that if the occupier refuses to disclose the correct 
amount of the rent payable by him or the name or address of the 
person to whom it is payable, the authority or officer may 
recover from the occupier the whole amount recoverable under 
section 368 as an arrear of tax under this Act. 

(2) Any amount recovered from an occupier instead of 
from an owner under sub-section (1), shall, in the absence of 


Execution of work by 
occupier in default of 
owner and deduction 
of expenses from rent. 


Relief to agents and 
trustees. 


General power to pay 
compensation. 


Compensation to be 
paid by offenders for 
damage caused by 
them. 


any contract between the owner and the occupier to the 
contrary, be deemed to have been paid by the owner. 

370. Whenever the owner of any land or building fails to 
execute any work which he is required to execute under this 
Act or any bye-law made thereunder, the occupier, if any, of 
such land or building may, with the approval of the 
Commissioner execute the said work and he shall, subject to 
any contract between the owner and occupier to the contrary, be 
entitled to recover from the owner the reasonable expenses 
incurred by him in execution of the work and may deduct the 
amount thereof from the rent payable by him to the owner. 

371 (1) Where any person, by reason of his receiving rent of 
immovable property as a receiver, agent or trustee would be 
bound to discharge any obligation imposed under this Act, or 
any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it for the 
discharge of which money’s required, he shall not be bound to 
discharge the obligation unless he has, or but for his own 
improper act or default might have had funds in his hands 
belonging to the owner sufficient for the purpose. 

(2) The burden of proving any act entitling a receiver, 
agent or trustee to relief under sub-section (1) shall lie 
upon him. 

(3) Where any receiver, agent or trustee has claimed and 
established his right to relief under this section, the 
Commissioner may, by notice in writing require him, to apply 
to the discharge of his obligations as aforesaid, the first moneys 
which may come to his hands on behalf, or for the use of the 
owner, and on failure to comply with the notice, he shall be 
deemed to be personally liable to discharge the obligation. 

372. In any case not otherwise provided for in this Act or in any 
bye-law made thereunder, the Commissioner, with the previous 
approval of the Corporation may pay compensation to any 
person who sustains damage by reasons of the exercises of any 
of the power vested by this Act or any bye-law in the 
Commissioner or in any Corporation officer or other 
Corporation employee. 

373. (1) Any person who has been convicted of an offence 
against this Act or any bye-law made thereunder shall, 
notwithstanding any punishment to which he may have been 
sentenced for the said offence, be liable to pay such 
compensation for any damage to the property of the 
Corporation resulting from the said offence as the appropriate 
municipal authority may consider reasonable. 

(2) In the event of a dispute regarding the amount of 
compensation payable under sub-section (1) such amount shall, 
on application made to him, be determined by the magistrate 
before whom the said person was convicted of the said offence; 


Mode of recovery of 
certain dues. 


Right of owner to 
apply to court of the 
District Judge in case 
of obstruction by 
occupier. 


General powers and 
procedure of the court 
of District Judge. 


Fees in proceeding 
before court of the 
District Judge. 


and on non-payment of the amount of compensation so 
determined the same shall be recovered under a warrant from 
the said magistrate as if it were a fine imposed by him on the 
person liable therefore. 

374. In any case not expressly provided for in this Act or any 
bye-law made thereunder any sum due to the Corporation on 
account of any charges, costs, expenses, fees, rates or rent or on 
any other account under this Act or any such bye-law may be 
recoverable from any person from whom such sum is due as 
arrears of tax under this Act: 

Provided that no proceedings for the recovery of any sum 
due under this section, shall be commenced after the expiry of 
three years from the date on which such sum became due. 

375. (1) The owner of any land or building may, if he is 
prevented by the occupier thereof from complying with any 
provision of this Act or any bye-law made thereunder or with 
any notice, order or requisition issued under such provision, 
apply to the court of the District Judge; and where such 
application is made within any time that may be fixed for the 
compliance with such provision or notice, order or requisition, 
the owner shall not be liable for his failure to comply with the 
provision or notice, order or requisition within the time, so 
fixed. 

(2) The court on receipt of such application, may make a 
written order requiring the occupier of the land or building to 
afford all reasonable facilities to the owner for complying with 
the said provision or notice, order or requisition and may also, 
if it thinks fit direct that the costs of such application and order 
be paid by the occupier. 

(3) After eight days from the date of the order referred to in 
sub-section (2), the occupier shall afford all such reasonable 
facilities to the owner for the purpose aforesaid as may be 
specified in the order and in the event of his continued) refusal 
to do so, the owner shall be discharged during the continuance 
of such refusal from any liability which may have been 
otherwise incurred by reasons of his failure to comply with the 
said provision or notice, order or requisition. 

376. The procedure provided in the Code of Civil Procedure, 
1908, in regard to suits shall be followed, in the disposal of 
application, appeals or references that may be made to the court 
of the District Judge under this Act or any bye-law made 
thereunder. 

377. (1) The Government may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, prescribed what fee shall be paid- 

(a) on any application, appeal or reference under 
this Act or any bye-law made thereunder to the 


Repayment of half 
fees on settlement 
before hearing. 


Power of the court of 
District Judge to 
delegate certain 
powers and toe make 
rules. 


Punishment for 
Certain Offences. 


court of the District Judge; and 
(b) for the issue, in connection with any inquiry or 
proceedings before that court under this Ct or bye- 
laws, of any summons or other process: 

Provided that the fee, if any, prescribed under clause 
(a) shall not in cases in which the value of the claim or subject 
matter is capable of being estimated in money, exceed the fee 
liable for the time being under the provisions of the Court Fees 
Act, 1870, in cases in which the amount of the claim or subject 
matter is of a like amount. 

(2) The Government may, by like notification, 
detennine the person by whom the fee, if any, prescribed under 
clause(a) of sub-section (1) shall be payable. 

(3) No application, appeal or reference shall be 
received by the court of the District Judge until the fee, if any, 
prescribed therefore under clause (a) of sub-section (1) has 
been paid: 

Provided that the court may in any case in which it 
thinks fit so to do- 

(i) receive an application, appeal or reference 
made by or on behalf of a poor person; and 

(ii) issue process on behalf of any such person, 
without payment or on part payment of the fees 
prescribed under this section. 

378. Whenever an application, appeal or reference made under 
this Act or any bye-law made thereunder to the court of the 
District Judge, is settled by agreement between the parties 
before the hearing, half the amount of all fees paid up to that 
time, shall be repaid by the court to the parties by whom the 
same have respectively been paid. 

379. The Court of the District Judge may- 

(a) delegate, either generally or specially, to the court of an 
Additional District Judge, power to receive applications, 
and reference under this Act or any rule, regulation or 
bye-laws made thereunder, and to hear and determine 
such application, and references; 

(b) with the approval of the Government, make rule not 
inconsistent with this Act or any rule, regulation or bye- 
law made thereunder, providing for any matter 
connected with the exercise to the Jurisdiction conferred 
upon the court by this Act which is not herein 
specifically provided for. 

380. Whoever- 

(a) contravenes any provision of any of the section, sub- 
sections, clauses, provisos or other provisions of this 
Act mentioned in the first column of the table in the 


General. 


Offences by 
Companies. 


Third Schedule; or 

(b) fails to comply with any order lawfully given to him or 
any requisition lawfully made upon him under any of 
the said sections, sub-sections, clauses, provisos or 
other provisions shall be punishable- 
id) with fine which may extend to the amount, specified in 
the third column of the said Table; and 
(ii) in the case of a continuing contravention or failure; with 
an additional fine which may extend to the amount 
specified in the fourth column of that Table for everyday 
during which such contravention or failure continues after 
conviction for the first such contravention or failure. 

381. Whoever, in any case in which a penalty is not expressly 
provided by this Act, fails to comply with any notice, order or 
requisition issued under any provisions thereof, or otherwise 
contravenes any of the provisions of this Act, shall be 
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, 
and in the case of a continuing failure or contravention with an 
additional fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day 
after the first, during which he has persisted in the failure or 
contravention. 

382. (1) Where an offence under this Act, has been committed 
by a company, every persons who, at the time the offence was 
committed, was incharge of and was responsible to, the 
Company for the conduct of the business of the company, as 
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the 
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and 
punished accordingly: 

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall 
render any such person liable to any punishment 
provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was 
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised 
all due diligence to prevent the commission of such 
offence. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section 
(1) where an offence under this Act has been committed 
by a company and it is proved that the offence has been 
committed with the consent or connivance of or is 
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, 
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such 
director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be 
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to 
be proceeded against and punishable accordingly. 
Explanation - For the purposes of this section- 
(a) “Company” means body corporate, and includes a 
firm or other association of individuals; and 


Police 

Establishments. 


Arrest of offenders. 


Power to institute etc. 
legal proceedings and 
obtain legal advice. 


(b) “director” in relation to a firm means a partner in 
the firm. 

383. (1) Every Corporation shall, unless relieved of this 
obligation by the Government, maintain sufficient police 
establishment for its police requirements within the Municipal 
area for the performance of the duties imposed on it by this Act; 

Provided that the Corporation may requisition extra 
police force from the Director General of Police 
whenever deemed necessary. 

(2) The establishment maintained under sub-section (1) 
shall consist of persons on deputation from the general police 
force under the Government within the meaning of section 2 of 
the Police Act, 1861, and shall consist of such number of 
officers and men who shall respectively receive such pay leave, 
allowances, gratuities and pensions as the Corporation may 
from time to time after consultation with the Director General 
of Police, and subject to the final decision of the Government, 
direct. 

384. (1) Any Police officer of the Corporation may arrest any 
person who commits in his view any offence against this Act or 
against any rule, regulation or bye-law made thereunder if- 

(a) the name and address of such person be unknown to 
him; and 

(b) such person on demand declines to give his name and 
address or gives a name and address which such officer 
has reason to believe to be false. 

(2) No person so arrested shall be detained in custody after 
his true name and address are ascertained or, without the order 
of the nearest Magistrate, for a period longer than twenty-four 
hours from the time of arrest exclusive of the time necessary 
for the journey from the place of arrest to the court of such 
magistrate. 

(3) It shall be the duty of all police officers to give 
immediate information to the Commissioner or any other 
appropriate Corporation Officer, of the commission of or the 
attempt, to commit any offence against this Act or any rules, 
regulation or bye-law made thereunder and to assist all 
Corporation Officers and other Corporation employees in the 
exercise of their lawful authority. 

385. The Commisioner may- 

(a) take, or withdraw from, proceedings against any person 
who is charged with- 

(i) any offence against this Act or any rule, regulation, 

or bye-law made thereunder; or 

(ii) any offence which affects or is likely to affect any 
property or interest of the Corporation or the due 


Prosecution. 


Composition of 
offences. 


administration of this Act; or 
(iii) committing any nuisance whatsoever; 

(b) contest or compromise any appeal against ratable value 
or assessment of any tax or rate; 

(c) take, or withdraw form or compromise, proceedings 
under section 373 for the recovery of expenses or 
compensation claimed to be due to the Corporation; 

(d) withdraw or compromise any claim for a sum not 
exceeding one thousand rupees against any person; 

(e) defend any suit or other legal proceeding brought 
against the Corporation or against the Commissioner or 
a Corporation officer or other Corporation employee in 
respect of anything done or omitted to be done by any 
one of them in his official capacity; 

(f) with the approval of the Corporation, admit or 
compromise any claim, suit or other legal proceeding 
brought against the Corporation or against the 
Commissioner or any Corporation Officer or other 
Corporation employee in respect of anything done or 
omitted to be done as aforesaid; 

(g) withdraw or compromise any claim against any person 
in respect of a penalty payable under contract entered 
into with such person by the Commissioner on behalf of 
the Corporation; 

(h) obtain such legal advice and assistance as he from time 
to time thinks necessary or expedient to obtain or as he 
may be required by the Corporation to obtain for any of 
the purposes mentioned in the foregoing clauses or for 
securing lawful exercise or discharge of any power or 
duty vesting in or imposed upon any municipal 
authority or any Corporation Officer or other 
Corporation employee. 

386. Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no court shall try 
an offence made punishable by or under this Act or any rule or 
any bye-law made thereunder, except on the complaint of, or 
upon information received from the Commissioner, or any 
other officer of the Corporation authorised by it in this behalf. 

387. (1) The Commissioner or any other officer of the 
Corporation authorised by it in this behalf by a general or 
special order or a sub-committee of the Corporation appointed 
by it may, either before or after the institution of the 
proceedings, compound any offence made punishable by or 
under this Act or any rule or any bye-law made thereunder. 

(2) Where an offence has been compounded, the 
offender, if in custody, shall be discharged and no further 
proceedings shall be taken against him in respect of the offence 


Protection of action 
of the Corporation 
etc. 


Notice to be given of 
suits. 


Supplemental 
provisions respecting 
rules. 


so compounded. 

388. No suit or prosecution shall be entertained in any court 
against the Corporation or against the Commissioner or against 
any Corporation Officer or other Corporation employee or 
against any person acting under the order or direction of the 
Corporation, the Commissioner or any Corporation officer or 
other Corporation employee, for anything which is in good faith 
done or intended to be done, under this Act or any rule, 
regulation or bye-law made thereunder. 

389. (1) No suit shall be instituted against the Corporation or 
against the Commissioner or against any Corporation Officer or 
other Corporation employee or against any person acting under 
the order or direction of the Corporation or the Commissioner 
or any Corporation Officer or other Corporation employee, in 
respect of any act done, or purporting to have been done, in 
pursuance of this Act or any rule, regulation or bye-law made 
thereunder, until the expiration of two months after notice in 
writing has been left at the Corporation office and, in the case 
of such employee or person unless notice in writing has also 
been delivered to him or left at his office or place or residence, 
and unless such notice states explicitly the cause of action, the 
nature of the relief sought, the amount of Compensation 
claimed and the name and place of residence of intending 
plaintiff, and unless the plaint contains statement that such 
notice flas been so left or delivered. 

(2) No suit, such as is described in sub-section (1) shall, 
unless it is a suit for the recovery of immovable property or for 
declaration of title thereto be instituted after the expiry of six 
months fonn the date on which the cause of action arises. 

(3) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to apply to a 
suit in which the only relief claimed is an injunction of which 
the object would be defeated by the giving of the notice or the 
postponement of the institution of the suit. 

CHAPTER-XXII 

RULES, REGULATIONS AND BYE-LAWS 

390. (1) Any rule which the Government is empowered to make 
under this Act may provide that any contravention thereof shall 
be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand 
rupees. 

(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as 
may be after it is made, before the House of the State 
Legislature while it is in session for a total period often days 
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more 
successive sessions, and if before the expiry of the session in 
which it is so laid or the successive session aforesaid, the House 
agrees to make any modification in the rule or the House agrees 


Supplemental 
provisions respecting 
regulations. 


Powers to make bye- 
laws. 


that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have 
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case 
may be, however, any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done or 
omitted to be done under that rule. 

391, (1) Any regulation which the Corporation under this Act, 
may make with the approval of Government, may be altered or 
rescinded by the Corporation with the approval of the 
Government in the exercise of its power under this Act. 

(2) Any regulation made under this section may provide 
that contravention thereof shall be punishable with fine which 
may extend to five hundred rupees. 

(3) No regulation made by the Corporation under this Act 
shall have effect until it has been published in the Official 
Gazette by the Government. 

392. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation may 
in addition to any bye-law which it is empowered to make 
under any other provision of this Act, make bye-laws to provide 
for all or any of the following matters, namely: - 

A. Bye-laws relating to taxation- 

(1) the maintenance of tax books and 
registers by the Commissioner and the particulars 
which such books and registers should contain; 

(2) the inspection of and the obtaining 
of copies and extracts from such books and 
registers and fees, if any, to be charged for the 
same; 

(3) the publication of rates of taxes as 
detennined by the Government from time to time; 

(4) the requisition by the 
Commissioner of infonnation and returns form 
persons liable to pay taxes; 

(5) the notice to be given to the 
Commissioner by any person who becomes the 
owner or possessor of a vehicle or animal in respect 
of which any tax is payable under this Act; 

(6) the wearing of badge by the driver 
of any such vehicle and the display of number plate 
on such vehivle; 

(7) the submission of returns by the 
persons liable to pay any tax under this Act; 

(8) any other matter relating to the 
levy, assessment, collection, refund or remission of 
taxes under this Act. 

B. Bye-laws relating to water supply, drainage and sewage 
disposal- 


(1) the power of the Commissioner to 
close water works for the supply of water, whether 
for domestic purposes or not, or for gratuitous use 
and to prohibit the same and use of water for the 
purpose of business; 

(2) the connection of supply pipes for 
conveying to any premises a supply of water from 
municipal water works; 

(3) the making and renewing 

connections with municipal water works; 

(4) the power of the Commissioner to 
take charge of private connection; 

(5) the power of the Commissioner to 
alter the position of connection; 

(6) the equitable distribution of water 
supplied to occupiers; 

(7) the size, material, quality, 

description and position of the pipes and fittings to 
be used for the purpose of any connection with or 
any communication from any municipal water 
works and stamping of pipes and fittings and fees 
for such stamping; 

(8) the size, material, quality and 

description of pipes, cisterns and fittings which are 
found on an examination under the provisions of 
this Act to be so defective that they cannot be 
effectively repaired; 

(9) the provision and maintenance of 
meters when water is supplied by measurement; 

(10) the prohibition of fraudulent and 

un-authorised use of water and the prohibition of 
fraud in connection with meters; 

(11) the maintenance of pipes, cisterns 

and other water works; 

(12) the regulation or prohibition of the 
discharge or deposit of offensive or obstructive 
matter, polluted water or other polluted and 
obnoxious matter into sewers; 

(13) the regulation in any manner not 
specifically provided for in this Act of the 
construction, alteration, maintenance, preservation, 
cleaning and repairs of drains, ventilation shafts, 
pipes, latrines, urinals, cesspools and other drainage 
works; 

(14) the cleansing of drains; 

(15) the prohibition of erection of 


buildings over drains without the permission of the 
Commissioner; 

(16) the connection of private drains 
with municipal drains; 

(17) the location and construction of 
cesspools; 

(18) the covering and ventilation of 
cesspool; 

(19) the period or periods of the day 
during which trade effluent may be discharged from 
any trade premises into municipal drains; 

(20) the exclusion from trade effluent 
of all condensing water; 

(21) the elimination from trade effluent, 
before it enters a municipal drain, of any 
constituent which in the opinion of the Corporation 
would, either alone or in combination with any 
matter with which it is likely to come into contact 
while passing through municipal drains, injure or 
obstruct those drains or make specially difficult or 
expensive the treatment or disposal of the sewage 
from those drains; 

(22) the maximum quality of trade 
effluent which may, without any consent or 
permission, be discharged from any trade premises 
into municipal drains on any one day and the 
highest rate at which trade effluent may, without 
such consent or pennission, be discharged form any 
trade premises into municipal drains; 

(23) the regulation of the temperature 
of trade effluent at the time of its discharge into 
municipal drains and the securing of the neutrality 
of trade effluent (that is to say that it is neither acid 
nor alkaline) at the time of such discharge; 

(24) the charges to be paid to the 
Corporation by occupiers of trade premises for the 
reception of trade effluent into municipal drain and 
disposal thereof; 

(25) the provision and maintenance of 
such an inspection chamber or manhole as will 
enable a person readily to take at any time samples 
of what is passing into municipal drains from trade 
premises; 

(26) the provision and maintenance of 
such meters as may be required to measure the 
volume of any trade effluent being discharged from 


any trade premises into municipal drains, and the 
testing of such meters; 

C. Bye-laws relating to streets- 

(1) the closure of streets when any 
work is in progress and alternative passage during 
the progress of such work; 

(2) the erection of a temporary nature 
during festivals; 

(3) the setting up of boards on 
buildings adjacent to streets during their 
construction or repoari; 

(4) the precautions to be taken when 
pennission is gtanted to any private individual for 
opening or breaking up any public street and the 
fees to be paid for the restoration of a street in its 
original sanction; 

(5) the pennission, regulation or 

prohibition of use or occupation of any street or 
place by itinerant vendors or hawkers or by any 
person for the sale of articles or the exercise of any 
calling or the setting up of any booth or stall and 
the fees chargeable for such occupation; 

(6) any other matter in connection 

with the construction, repair, maintenance, naming, 
numbering and lighting of streets for which 
provision is necessary or should be made; 

D. Bye-laws relating to building- 

id) the regulation or restriction of the 

use of sites for buildings for different areas; 

(2) the regulation or restriction of 

buildings in different areas; 

(3) the form of notice of erection of 
any building or execution of any work and the fee 
in respect of the same; 

(4) the plans and documents to be 

submitted together with such notice and the 
information and further information to be furnished; 

(5) the level and width of foundation, 
level of lowest floor and stability of structure; 

(6) the construction of buildings and 
the materials to be used in the construction of 
buildings; 

(7) the height of buildings whether 

absolute or relative to the width of streets or to 
different areas;] 

(8) the number and height of storeys 


composing a building and the height of rooms and 
the dimensions of rooms intended for human 
habitation; 

(9) the provision of open spaces, 

external and internal, and adequate means of light 
and ventilation; 

(10) the provision of means of egress in 
case of fire, fire escapes and water lifting devices; 

(11) the provision of secondary means 
of access for the removal of house refuse; 

(12) the materials and methods of 
construction of external and party walls, roofs and 
floors; 

(13) the position, materials and 

methods of construction of hearths, smoke-escapes, 
chimneys, staircases, drains, latrines and cesspools; 

(14) the provision of lifts; 

(15) the paving of yards; 

(16) the restrictions on the use of 
inflammable materials in buildings; 

(17) the restrictions on construction of 
foundation on certain sites; 

(18) the measures to be taken to protect 
buildings from damp arising from sub-soil; 

(19) the wells, tanks and cisterns and 
pumps for the supply of water for human 
consumption in connection with buildings; 

(20) in the case of wells, the 

dimensions of the well, the manner of enclosing it 
and if the well is intended for drinking purposes the 
means which shall be used to prevent pollution of 
the water; 

(21) the supervision of buildings; 

(22) the setting back of garages and 

shops from the regular line of a street; 

(23) the construction of portable 

structures and permission for such construction. 

E. Bye-laws relating to sanitation and public health- 

(1) the position of latrines and urinals; 

(2) the provision of air spaces between 
latrines and buildings of places used for various 
purposes; 

(3) the white washing of buildings; 

(4) the provision of living 

accommodation for sweepers in buildings newly 

erected requiring ten or more latrines; 


(5) the regulation or prohibition of the 
stabling or herding of animals or any class of 
animals so as to prevent danger to public health; 

(6) the seizure of ownerless animals 
straying within the limits of the Municipal area and 
the regulation and control of ponds; 

(7) the fixing and regulation of the use 
of public bathing and washing places; 

(8) the prevention of the spread of 
dangerous diseases; 

(9) the segregation in or the removal 
or exclusion from any part of the Municipal area or 
the destruction of animals suffering or reasonably 
suspected to be suffering from any infectious or 
contagious disease; 

(10) the supervision, regulation, 
conservation and protection from injury 
contamination or trespass of sources and means of 
public water supply and of appliances for the 
distribution of water; 

(11) the enforcement of compulsory 
vaccination and inoculation; 

(12) the proper disposal of corpses, the 
regulations and management of burning and burial 
places and other places for the disposal of corpses 
and the fees chargeable for the use of such places 
where the same are provided or maintained at the 
expense of the Corporation Fund. 

F. Bye-laws relating to public safety and expression of 
nuisances- 

the regulation or prohibition for the purpose of 
sanitation or the prevention of disease or the promotion 
of public safety or convenience of any act which 
occasions or is likely to occasion a nuisance and for the 
regulation or prohibition of which no provision made 
elsewhere by this Act. 

G. Bye-laws relating markets, slaughter houses, trades and 
occupations- 

(1) the days on, and the hours during 
which any market or slaughter house may be kept 
open for use; 

(2) the regulation of the design, 
ventilation and drainage of markets and slaughter 
houses and the materials to be used in the 
construction thereof; 

(3) the keeping of markets and 


slaughter houses and the lands and buildings 
appertaining thereto in a clean and sanitary 
condition, the removal of filth, rubbish and other 
polluted and obnoxious matter therefrom and the 
supply therein of pure water and of a sufficient 
number of latrines and urinals for the use of persons 
using or frequenting the same; 

(4) the manner in which animals shall 
be admitted in slaughter houses; 

(5) the manner in which animals may 
be slaughtered; 

(6) the provision of passage of 
sufficient which between the stalls in market, 
buildings and market places for the convenient use 
of the public and the prevention of encroachment of 
such passage; 

(7) the setting apart of separate areas 
for different classes of articles in market buildings 
and market places; 

(8) the disposal of destruction of 

animals offered for slaughter which are, from 
disease or any other cause, unfit for human 
consumption; 

(9) the destruction of carcasses which 
from any disease or any other cause are found after 
slaughter to be unfit for human consumption; 

(10) the regulation of the entry of 

animal into slaughter house and the bringing out of 
the carcasses of such animals after slaughter and the 
fee to be paid for use of slaughter houses; 

(11) the proper custody and care of 

animals for the keeping of which licences are 
granted under section 331; 

(12) the regulation of the import of 

animals ad flesh within the Municipal area; 

(13) the rendering necessity of licences 
for the use of premises within the Municipal area as 
stables or cow houses or as an accommodation for 
sheep, goat or buffalo and the fees payable for such 
licences and the conditions subject to which such 
licences may be granted, refused, suspended or 
revoked; 

(14) the regulation of sarais, hotels, dak 
bungalows, lodging houses, boarding houses, 
buildings, let-in-tenements, residential clubs, 
restaurants, eating houses, cafes, refreshment rooms 


and places of public recreation, entertainment or 
resorts; 

(15) the control and supervision of 
places where dangerous or offensive trades are 
carried on so as to secure cleanliness therein or to 
minimize injurious, offensive or dangerous effects 
arising or likely to arise therefrom; 

(16) the regulation of the posting of 
bills and advertisements and of the position, size, 
shade or style of the name boards, signing boards 
and signposts; 

(17) the fixation of a method for the 
sale of articles whether by measure, weight, piece 
or any other method; 

(18) the procedure regarding grant of 

pennit to establish a factory, workshop or trade 

premises; 

(19) the regulation of smoke in 

factories, workshop and trade premises; 

(20) the regulation of sanitary 

conditions in factories, workshop and trade 
premises; 

(21) the regulation of the use in any 
factory, workshop or trade premises of whistle, 
trumpet, siren or horn worked by steam, 
compressed air, electricity or other mechanical 
means; 

(22) the prevention of nuisance in any 
market building, market place, slaughter house or 
any factory, workshop or trade premises; 

H. Bye-laws relating to improvement- 

(1) the fonn and contents of an 

improvement scheme or a rehousing scheme; 

(2) the procedure to be followed in 
connection with the framing, submission, approval 
and sanction of such scheme; 

(3) the local inquires and other 

hearings that may be held before a scheme is 

framed, approved or sanctioned ; 

(4) the alteration of an improvement 

scheme or a rehousing scheme after approval and 
sanction. 

I. Bye-laws relating to miscellaneous matters- 

(1) the prevention and extinction of fire; 

(2) the circumstances and the manner in which owners 
of land or building in the Municipal area 


Penalty for breaches 
ofbye-laws. 


Supplemental 
provisions respecting 
bye-laws. 


temporarily absent therefrom or not resident therein 
may be required to appoint as their agents for all or 
any of the purposes of this Act or of any bye-laws 
made thereunder, person residing within or near the 
municipal area; 

(3) the regulation and control of Corporation hospitals 
and dispensaries; 

(4) the rendering of necessary licences- 

(a) for the proprietors or drivers of 
hackney carriages, cycle rickshaws, 
thelas, the rahries kept or plying for 
hire or used for hawking articles; 

(b) for persons working as job porters for 
the conveyance of goods; 

(5) the classification of cinema theatres for the 
purposes of levying theatre-tax; 

(6) any other matter which is to be or may be 
prescribed by bye-laws made under this Act or in 
respect of which this Act makes no provision or 
makes insufficient provision and provision is, in the 
opinion of the Corporation, necessary for the 
efficient municipal government of the Municipal 
area. 

393. Any bye-law made under this Act may provide that a 
contravention thereof shall be punishable- 

(a) with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees; or 

(b) with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees and 
in the case of continuing contravention, with an 
additional fine which may extend to fifty rupees for 
every day during which such contravention continues 
after conviction for the first contravention; or 

(c) with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day 
during which the contravention continues, after the 
receipt of a notice from the Commissioner or any 
Corporation officer duly authorised in that behalf by the 
person contravening the bye-law requiring such person 
to discontinue such contravention. 

(2) Any such bye-law also provide that a person 
contravening the same shall be required to remedy so far as 
lies in his power, the mischief, if any, caused by such 
contravention. 

394. (1) Any power to make bye-law conferred by this Act is 
conferred subject to the conditions of the bye-laws being made 
after previous publication and their not taking effect until they 
have been approved by the Government and published in the 
Official Gazette. 


Bye-laws to be 
available for 
inspection and 
purchase. 


Power of Government 
to require production 
of documents. 


Inspection. 


Direction by 
Government. 


(2) The Government in approving a bye-law may make any 
change therein which appears to it to be necessary. 

(3) The Government may, after previous publication of its 
intention cancel any bye-law which it has approved, and 
thereupon the bye-law shall cease to have effect. 

395. (1) A copy of all bye-laws made under this Act shall be 
kept at the Corporation office and shall, during office hours, be 
open free of charge to inspection by any person of the 
Municipal area. 

(2) Copies of all such bye-laws shall be kept at the 
Corporation office and shall be sold to the public at cost price 
either singly or in collections at the option of the purchaser. 

CHAPTER-XXIII 

CONTROL 

396. The Government may at any time require the 
Commissioner- 

(a) to produce any record, correspondence, plan or other 
document in his possession or under his control; 

(b) to furnish any return, plan estimate, statement, account 
or statistics relating to the proceedings, duties or works 
of the Corporation or any of the Corporation authorities. 

397. The Government may depute any of its officers to inspect 
or examine any municipal department or office or any service 
or work under taken by the Corporation or any of the municipal 
authorities or any property belonging to the Corporation and to 
report thereon and the Corporation and every Corporation 
authority and all Corporation officers and other Corporation 
employees shall be bound to afford the officer so deputed 
access at all reasonable times to the premises and properties of 
the Corporation and to all records, accounts and other 
documents the inspection of which he may consider necessary 
to enable him to discharge his duties. 

398. (1) If, whether on receipt of any information or report 
obtained under section 396 or section 397 or otherwise, the 
Government is of opinion, - 

(a) that any duty imposed on the Corporation or any of its 
authority by or under this Act has not been perfonned or 
has been perfonned in an imperfect, insufficient or 
unsuitable manner; or 

(b) that adequate financial provision has not been made for 
the perfonnance of any such duty, 

it may direct the Corporation or the Commissioner, within such 
period as it thinks fit, to make arrangements to its satisfaction 
for the proper performance of duty, or, as the case may be, to 
make financial provisions to its satisfaction for the perfonnance 
of the duty and the Corporation or the Commissioner concerned 


Power to provide for 
enforcement of 
direction under 
section 398. 


Dissolution of 
Corporation. 


shall comply with such direction: 

Provided that, unless in the opinion of the Government the 
immediate execution of such order is necessary, it shall, before 
making any direction under this section, give the Corporation or 
the Commissioner an opportunity of showing cause why such 
direction should not be made. 

29 

[(2) In addition to the directions issued under sub-section 
(1), the Government may also issue directions to the 
Corporation or the Commissioner for carrying out the purposes 
of this Act and in particular with regard to- 

(i) various uses to which any land within the 
Corporation may be put; 

(ii) repayment of debts and discharging of obligations; 

(iii) collection of taxes; 

(iv) observance of rules and bye-laws; 

(v) adoption of development measures and measures 
for promotion of public safety, health, convenience and 
welfare; 

(vi) sanitation and cleanliness; 

(vii) establishment and maintenance of fire-brigade]. 

399. If, within the period fixed by a direction made under sub- 
section (1) of section 398, any action the taking of which has 
been directed under that sub-section has not been duly taken, 
the Government may make arrangements for the taking of such 
action and may direct that all expenses connected therewith 
shall be defrayed out of the Corporation Fund. 

400. (1) If, in the opinion of the Government, the Corporation is 
not competent to perform, or persistently makes default in the 
performance of the duties imposed on it by or under this Act or 
any other law or exceeds or abuses its powers the Government 
may by an order published, together with a statement of the 
reasons therefore, in the Official Gazette, declare the 
Corporation to be incompetent or in default or to have exceeded 
or abused its powers, as the case may be, and dissolve the 
Corporation: 

Provided that before making an order of dissolution as 
aforesaid, reasonable opportunity shall be given to the 
Corporation to be heard and to show cause why such order of 
dissolution should not be made. 

(2) When the Corporaiton is dissolved by an order under 
sub-section (1): - 

(a) all members shall, on such date as may be specified 
in the order vacate their offices without prejudice 
to their eligibility for election under clause (dO; 

(b) on the dissolution of the Corporation, all powers 
and duties conferred and imposed upon the 


Delegation. 


Validity of notices 
and other documents. 

Admissibility of 
document or entry as 
evidence. 


Evidence of 
Corporation officer of 
employee. 


Prohibition against 
obstruction of Mayor 
or any Corporation 
authority etc. 


Corporation by or under this Act or any other law 
shall be exercised and perfonned by such officer or 
authority as the Government may appoint in that 
behalf; 

(c) all property vested in the Corporation shall until it 
is reconstituted, vest in the Government; 

(d) election shall be held for the purpose of 
reconstituting the Corporation within a period of 
six months. 

CHAPTER-XXIV 

MISCELLANEOUS 

401. The Government, may by notification, delegate all or any 
of its powers under this Act, except the power to make rules, to 
any officer not below the rank of an Extra-Assistant 
Commissioner subject to such restrictions and conditions as 
may be specified in the notification. 

(2) The Commissioner may, by order direct that any 
power conferred, or any duty imposed on him by or under this 
Act, shall, in such circumstances and under such conditions, if 
any, as may be specified in the order, be exercised and 
perfonned by a Corporation officer or other Corporation 
employee. 

402. No notice, order, requisition, licence, pennission in 
writing or any other document issued under this Act, shall be 
invalid merely by reason of defect of form. 

403. A copy of any receipt, application, plan notice, order or 
other document or of any entry in a register in the possession of 
any Corporation authority shall, if duly certified by the legal 
keeper thereof or other person authorised by the Commissioner 
in this behalf, be admissible in evidence of the existence of the 
document or entry and shall be admitted as evidence of the 
matters and transaction therein recorded in every case where, 
and to the same extent to which, the original document or entry 
would if produced, have been admissible to prove such matters 
and transactions. 

404. No Corporation Officer, or other Corporation employee 
shall, in any legal, proceeding to which the Corporation is not a 
party, be required to produce day register or document the 
contents of which can be proved under section 403 by the 
certified copy, or to appear as a witness to prove any matter or 
transaction recorded therein save by order of the court made for 
special cause. 

405. No person shall obstruct the Corporation or the 
Commissioner, the Mayor or any of the Deputy Mayors, any 
members or any person employed by the Corporation or any 
person with whom the Commissioner has entered into a 


Prohibition against 
removal of mark. 


Prohibition against 
removal of 
obliteration. 


Prohibition against 
unauthorised removal 
deposit etc. 

Power to evict 
persons from 
Corporation 
premises/land. 


contract on behalf of the Corporation, in the performance of 
their duty or of anything which they are empowered or required 
to do by virtue or in consequence of any provision of this Act 
or of any rule, regulation or bye-law made thereunder. 

406. No person shall remove any mark set up for the purpose of 
indicating any level or direction incidental to the execution of 
any work authorised by this Act or of any rule or bye-law made 
thereunder. 

407. No person shall, without authority in that behalf remove, 
destroy, deface or otherwise obliterate any notice exhibited by 
or under orders of the Corporation or any other Corporation 
authority or any Corporation Officer or other Corporation 
employee specified by the Commissioner in this behalf. 

408. No person shall, without authority in that behalf, remove 
earth, sand or other material or deposit any matter or make any 
encroachment in or on any land vested in the Corporation or in 
any way obstruct the same. 

30[408A. (1) If the competent authority is satisfied- 

(a) that any person authorized to occupy any premises of 
the Corporation has- 

(1) not paid rent lawfully due from him in respect of such 
premises for a period of more than two months; or 

(ii) sublet, without the permission of the Commissioner or 
any other officer duly empowered to grant such 
pennission, the whole or any part of such premises; or 

(iii) otherwise acted in contravention of any of the terms 
expressed or implied, under which he is authorized to 
occupy such premises; or 

(b) that any person is in unauthorized occupation of any 
premises/land or building/structure constructed thereon, 
of the Corporation, 

the competent authority may, notwithstanding anything 
contained in any law, for the time being in force, by notice 
served upon him by post or by person and if such person 
avoids service or is not available for service of notice or 
refuses to accept notice, then by affixing a copy of it on the 
outer door or some other conspicuous part of such 
premises/land or building or by beating of drums or in such 
manner, as may be prescribed, call upon such person to appear 
and show cause why he should not be ordered to vacate the 
said premises/land or building/structure constructed thereon or 
demolish unauthorized construction and to restore to its 
original state or to bring it in confonnity with the provisions of 
this Act or rules framed thereunder, as the case may be, within 
a period of seven days from the date of service of the notice. 

(2) If such person fails to show cause to the satisfaction of 


the competent authority or fails to appear or refuses to appear 
before the competent authority, as the case may be, within a 
period of seven days, the competent authority shall pass an 
order requiring him to vacate such premises/land or 
building/structure constructed thereon or demolish 
unauthorized construction and restore to its original state or to 
bring it in confonnity with the provisions of this Act or the 
rules framed thereunder, as the case may be, within a further 
period of seven days. 

(3) If the order made under sub-section (2) is not carried 
out or complied with within the specified period, the 
competent authority at the expiry of the period so specified, 
shall evict that person from, and take possession of, the 
premises/land or building/structure constructed thereon or 
demolish unauthorized construction or restore to its original 
state or bring it in conformity with the provisions of this Act or 
the rules framed thereunder, as the case may be, and shall for 
that purpose use such force, as may be necessary and the cost 
incurred on such measures shall, if not paid on demand, being 
made to him, be recoverable from such persons as arrears of 
land revenue. 

(4) Even before the expiry of a further period of seven days 
mentioned under sub-section (2), if the competent authority is 
satisfied that instead of vacation of premises/land or 
building/structure constructed thereon or demolition of 
unauthorized construction, as the case may be, the person 
continues with the contravention, the competent authority shall 
himself take such measures and use such force as may appear 
necessary to give effect to the order under sub-section (2) and 
the cost of such measures shall if not paid on demand being 
made to him, be recoverable from such person as arrears of 
land revenue. 

(5) If a person, who has been ordered to vacate any 
premises/land or building/structure constructed thereon, under 
sub-section (2) in view of the conditions as specified under 
sub-clause (i) or (iii) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) within a 
period of seven days from the date of service of the notice, 
pays the rent in arrears or carries out or otherwise complies 
with the terms contravened by him, to the satisfaction of the 
competent authority, as the case may be, the competent 
authority shall, in lieu of the eviction of such person under sub- 
section (3) cancel the order made under sub-section (2) and 
thereupon such person shall hold the premises on the terms on 
which he held them immediately before such notice was served 
on him. 

408B. (1) Any person aggrieved by an order of the competent 


Appeal 


authority under sub-section (2) of section 408A may, within a 
period of seven days from the date of the order under sub- 
section (2) of section 408A, prefer an appeal to the 
Commissioner. 

(2) Where an appeal is preferred under sub-section (10, 
the Commissioner may stay the enforcement of the 
order of the competent authority for such period and on 
such conditions, as it deems fit. 

(3) Every appeal under this section shall be disposed of 
by the Commissioner within a period of sixty days. 

Finality of order. 408C Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, every 
order made by the competent authority under section 408A or 
by the Commissioner under section 408B shall be final and 
shall not be called in question in any original suit, application 
or execution proceedings and no injunction shall be granted by 
any court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to 
be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under 
sections 408 A and 408B of this Act].” 

Liability of members. 409. (1) Every member shall be liable for the loss, waste or 
misapplication of any money or other property belonging to the 
Corporation, if such loss, waste or misapplication is reported 
either by the Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, or otherwise 
comes to the notice of the Corporation to be a direct 
consequence of his neglect or misconduct in the performance of 
his duties as a member; and he may after being given an 
opportunity, by notice served in the manner provided for the 
service of summons in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, to 
show cause by written or oral representation why he should not 
be required to make good the loss, or be surcharged with the 
value of such property or the amount of such money by the 
Divisional Commissioner, and if the amount is not paid within 
fourteen days from the expiry of the period of appeal prescribed 
by sub-section (2) the Collector at the request of the Divisional 
Commissioner shall proceed forthwith to recover the amount as 
if it were an arrears of land revenue and have it credited to the 
Corporation Fund. 

(2) The person against whom an order under sub-section 
(1) is made by the Divisional Commissioner may within 
thirty days of the date of communication of the order 
make an appeal to the Government: 

Provided that no person shall under this section be called 
upon to show cause after the expiry of a period of five years 
from the occurrence of such loss, waste or misapplication or 
after the expiry of one year fonn the time of his ceasing to be a 
member. 

Members and 410. Every member, the Commissioner, and every Corporation 

Corporation Officer Offirpr and nthpr Cnrnnratinn ptmnlnvpps shall hp rlpptnprl tn hp 


and employees to be 
public servants. 

Annual 

administration report. 


Construction of 
reference. 


Special provisions as 
to rural area. 


Power of Government 
to suspend any 
resolution or order of 
Corporation. 


Officer and other Corporation employees, shall be deemed to be 
a public servant within the meaning of section 2 1 of the Indian 
Penal Code, 1860. 

411. (1) As soon as may be after the 1st day of April, in every 
year and not later than the 1st day of April, in every year and 
not later than such date as may be fixed by the Government in 
this behalf, the Corporation shall submit to the Government a 
detailed report of its activities during the preceding year in such 
form as the Government may direct. 

(2) The Commissioner shall prepare report and the 
Corporation shall consider it and forward the same to the 
Government with its resolution thereon, if any. 

(3) Copies of the report shall be kept for sale at the 
Corporation Office. 

412. Save as expressly provided in this Act and unless the 
context otherwise requires, after the establishment of the 
Corporation any reference in any enactment, rule, bye-law, 
order, scheme, notification or other instrument having the force 
of law, to any local authority having jurisdiction in the 
Municipal area or any part thereof shall, unless the context or 
subject otherwise requires, be construed as reference to the 
Corporation. 

413. Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing 
provisions in this Act, - 

(a) the Corporation with previous approval of the 
Government may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, declare that any portion of the rural areas shall 
cease to be included therein and upon the issue of such 
notification that portion shall be included in and form 
part of the urban areas; 

(b) the Corporation with previous approval of the 
Government may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, - 

(i) exempt the rural areas or any portion thereof 
from such of the provisions of this Act as it 
deems fit; 

(ii) levy taxes, rates, fee and other charges in the 
rural area or any portion thereof at rates lower 
than those at which such taxes, fee and other 
charges are levied in the urban areas or exempt 
such areas or portion from any such tax, rate, fee 
or other charge. 

414. If the Government is of the opinion that the execution of 
any resolution or order of the Corporation or of any other 
Corporation authority or employee subordinate thereto or the 
doing of any act which is about to be done or is being done by 


Power of Government 
to modify 
proceedings. 


Power of Government 
to withdraw any area 
of municipal area 
from operation of 
Act. 


Committee for 

Metropolitan 

planning. 


or on behalf of the Corporation is in contravention of or in 
excess of powers conferred by this Act or of any other law for 
the time being in force or is likely to lead breach of the peace or 
cause injury and or annoyance to the public or any class or 
body of persons, the Government may, by order in writing, 
suspend the execution of such resolution or order, or prohibit 
the doing of any such act. 

415. The Government may by written order, annual or omit 
form the records any proceedings of the Corporation which it 
considers not to be in conformity with this Act, or any rules or 
bye-laws made thereunder and may do all things necessary to 
secure such conformity: 

Provided that unless in the opinion of the Government 
the immediate making of such order is necessary, it shall before 
making, an order under this section, give the Corporation and 
opportunity of showing cause why such an order should not be 
made. 

416. (1) The Government may, by notification, withdraw form 
the operation of this Act, any area of any Municipal area of the 
Corporation: 

Provided that no such notification shall be issued unless 
the same has been published for inviting objections and 
suggestions, if any, which have been duly considered to. 

(2) When a notification is issued under this section in 
relation to any Municipal area, this Act, all notification, rules, 
regulations, bye-laws, orders, directions and powers issued, 
made or conferred under this Act shall cease to apply to the said 
area; the balance of the Corporation Fund and all other property 
at the time of the issue of the notification vested in the 
Corporation shall vest in the Government and the liabilities of 
the Corporation shall stand transferred to the Government. 

417. (1) There shall be constituted for the metropolitan area, a 
metropolitan planning committee, to prepare a draft 
development plan for the area as a whole. 

(2) The Government, through rules to be framed in this regard 
make provision with respect to- 

(a) the composition of the Metropolitan Planning 
Committee; 

(b) the manner in which the seats in the Committee shall be 
filled: 

Provided that not less than two-thirds of the members of the 
Committee shall be elected by and from amongst the elected 
members of the Corporation and municipalities and 
Chairpersons of the panchayats in the Metropolitan area in 
proportion to the ration between the population of the 
Corporation, the municipalities and the panchayats in the area; 


(c) the representation in such Committees of the members 
of the Government of India and of the Government and 
of such organisations and institutions as may be deemed 
necessary for carrying out the functions assigned to such 
committee; 

(d) the functions relating to planning and coordination for 
the metropolitan area which may be assigned to the 
Committees; 

(e) the manner in which the Chairpersons of the 
Committees shall be chosen. 

(3) The Metropolitan Planning Committee shall, in 

preparing the draft development plan, - 

(a) have regard to- 

(i) the plans prepared by the Corporation, 
municipalities and the Panchayats in the 
Metropolitan area; 

(ii) matters of common interest between the 
Corporation, municipalities and the panchayats, 
including co-ordinated special planning of the 
area, sharing of water and other physical and 
natural resources, the integrated development of 
infrastructure and environmental conservation; 

(b) consult such institutions and organisations as the 
Government may prescribe. 

CHAPTER-XXV 

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS, REPEALS AND 
SAVINGS PERTAINING TO FARID ABAD COMPLEX 
ADMINISTRATION 

Transitional 418. In any enactment other than the Faridabad complex 

provisions. (Regulation and Development) Act, 1971, in force on the date 

immediately preceding the day on which this Act came into 
force in the Municipal area or in any rule, order or notification 
made or issued there under and in force on such date, unless a 
different intention appears- 

(a) reference to Faridabad Complex Administration, 
Faridabad under the Faridabad Complex (Regulation 
and Development) Act, 1971, shall be construed as 
reference to the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad, 
and such enactment, rule, order or notification shall 
apply to the Municipal area of the Corporation; 

(b) references to the Chief Administrator under the 
Faridabad Complex (Regulation and Development) Act, 
1971, shall be construed in respect of the Municipal area 
as reference to the Commissioner appointed under this 
Act; 

(c) references to any chapter or section of the Faridabad 


Provisions regarding 
staff of Faridabad 
Complex 
Administration. 


Power to remove 
difficulties. 


Repeal and saving. 


Complex (Regulation and Development) Act, 1971, 
shall as far as possible be construed in respect of the 
Municipal area as references to this Act or its 
corresponding chapter or section. 

419. Every officer and other employee serving under the 
Administration of the Faridabad Complex at the time of 
commencement of this Act shall be deemed to have been 
transferred to and become an officer or other employee of the 
Corporation of Faridabad with such designation as the 
Commissioner may determine and hold office for the same 
tenure, at the same remuneration and on the same terms and 
conditions of service as he would have continued to hold in 
case the Corporation had not been constituted and shall 
continue to do so unless and until his employment in the 
Corporation is duly tenninated or until the remuneration or 
terms and conditions of his service are duly revised by the 
Corporation: 

Provided that the conditions of service applicable to them 
immediately before the commencement of this Act shall not be 
varied to their disadvantages except with the previous approval 
of the Government. 

420. If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of 
this Act, the Government may by order do any thing not 
inconsistent with such provisions which appears to it to be 
necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the 
difficulty. 

421. (1) As from the commencement of this Act the Faridabad 
Complex (Regulation and Development) Act, 1971, shall stand 
repealed. 

(2) Notwithstanding any thing contained in sub-section 

(1)- 

(a) any appointment, notification, order, scheme, rule, form, 
notice, or bye-law made or issued, and any licence or 
pennission granted under the Faridabad Complex 
(Regulation and Development) Act, 1971 and in force 
immediately before the commencement of this Act 
shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this Act continue to be in force and 
deemed to have been made, issued or granted under the 
provisions of this Act, unless and until it is superseded 
by any appointment notification, order, scheme, rule, 
form, notice or bye-law made or issued or any licence or 
permission granted under the said provisions; 

(b) all debts, obligations and liabilities incurred, all 
contracts entered into and all matters and things 
engaged to be done by with or for the administration of 


Provisions regarding 
officer and 
employees. 


the Faridabad Complex, before such commencement, 
shall be deemed to have been incurred, entered onto or 
engaged to be done by with or for the Corporation; 

(c) all budget estimates, assessments, valuations, 
measurements or divisions made by the administration 
of the Faridabad Complex shall, in so far they are not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act continue in 
force and to deemed to have been made under the 
provisions of this Act unless and until they are 
superseded by any budget estimate, assessment, 
valuation, measurement or division made by the 
Corporation under the said provisions; 

(d) all properties, movable and immovable and all interests 
of whatsoever nature and kind therein, vested in the 
administration of the Faridabad Complex immediately 
before such commencement, shall with all rights of 
whatever description used, enjoyed or possessed by the 
administration of Faridabad Complex, vest in the 
Corporation; 

(e) all rates, taxes, fees, rents and other sums of money due 
to the administration of the Faridabad Complex 
immediately before such commencement, shall be 
deemed to be due to the Corporation; 

(f) all rates, taxes, fees, rents, fares and other charges shall, 
until and unless they are varied by the Corporation 
continue to be levied at the same rate at which they 
were being levied by the aforesaid administration of the 
Faridabad Complex immediately before such 
commencement; 

(g) all suits, prosecutions, land acquisition proceedings 
instituted or which might have been instituted by or 
against the administration of the Faridabad Complex 
may be continued or instituted by or against 
Corporation; and 

(h) all proceedings and appeals pending before any 
authority of the Faridabad Complex before such 
commencement, shall be deemed to have been instituted 
before the Commissioner and shall be continued by him 
of transferred to another authority under the provisions 
of this Act. 

CHAPTER-XXVI 

GENERAL PROVISIONS WITH REGARD TO 
CORPORATION OTHER THAN THE CORPORATION 
OF FARIDABAD. 

422. (1) When any municipality including area comprising rural 
area or a part thereof, if any, is declared and constituted a 


Assets, liabilities, 
obligations contracts 
and pending 
proceedings. 


Corporation under sections 3 and 4 of this Act, the entire 
officers and employees serving in a municipality including area 
comprising rural area or a part thereof, if any, on a post in 
relation to which the Corporation is constituted, shall, on the 
declaration and constitution of a Corporation, be deemed to be 
transferred to the Corporation on the existing terms of service 
and integrated into the Corporation Service. 

(2) The Corporation may recruit additional staff where 
necessary subject to the conditions as may be laid down 
by the Government. 

(30 In making appointment to any post referred to in this 
section, the appointing authority shall follow the instructions 
issued by the Government from time to time in relation to 
reservation of appointment or post for Scheduled Castes, 
Backward Classes and other category of persons. 

423. (1) All assets and properties vesting in all debts, liabilities 
and obligations incurred by, and all contracts made by or an 
behalf of, the municipality including area comprising rural area 
or a part, thereof, if any, declared an constituted to be a 
Corporation under section 3 and 4 of this Act, be deemed to 
have been vested in, to have been incurred and made by the 
Corporation and shall continue in operation. 

(2) All proceedings pending before any authority of the 
said municipality including area comprising rural area or a part 
thereof, if any on the day the Corporation was constituted 
which under the provisions of this Act are required to be 
instituted before or undertake by the Commissioner, shall be 
transferred to and continued by him and all other such 
proceedings shall, so far as may be, be transferred to and 
continued by such authority before or by whom they have to be 
instituted or undertaken under the provisions of this Act. 

(3) All appeals pending before any authority of the said 
municipality including area comprising rural area or a part 
thereof, if any, on the day the Corporation was constituted, 
shall, in so far as may be practicable be disposed of as if the 
same were pending before the said authority after the 
declaration and constitution of the Corporation. 

(4) All prosecutions instituted by or on behalf of the said 
municipality including area comprising rural area or a part 
thereof, if any, and all suits and legal proceedings instituted by 
or against the said municipality including area comprising rural 
area or a part thereof, if any, or any officer of the said 
municipality including area comprising rural area or a part 
thereof, if any pending on the day the Corporation was 
constituted, shall be deemed to have been instituted by or 
against the Commissioner. 


Repeal. 


424. The Haryana Municipal Corporation Ordinance, 1994 

(Haryana Ordinance No. 4 of 1994), is hereby repealed. 

First Schedule 

[See Section 3(1)] 

A. 

Municipalities and revenue estates included in 

the Faridabad Complex- 

(0 

Municipality of Faridabad Township 

(ii) 

Municipality of Faridabad Old 

(hi) 

Municipality of Ballabgarh 

B. 

Sabha areas included in the Faridabad Complex- 

(0 

Atmadpur 

(ii) 

Annagngur 

(iii) 

Palla 

(iv) 

Sarai Khaja 

(v) 

Wazirpur 

(vi) 

Mevla Maharajpur 

(vii) 

Fatehpur Chandila 

(viii) 

Budina 

(ix) 

Daulatabad 

(x) 

Ajronda 

(xi) 

Saran 

(xii) 

Mujesar 

(xiii) 

Ranera 

(xiv) 

Unchagaon 

(XV) 

Jharsainthi 

(xvi) 

Sehi 

(xvii) 

Ankhir 

(xviii) 

Badkhal 

(xix) 

Nawada Koh 

(xx) 

Dabua 

(xxi) 

Gaunchi 

(xxii) 

Nangla Gujran 

(xxiii) 

Gajipur 

(xxiv) 

Bajri 

(xxv) 

Bhankri 

r excluding the area mentioned 
in Haryana Government, Local 
(Committees), notification 
Pali number 13/35/91-30 1, dated 

Gothra Mohbtabhd 19th June, 1993, published 
in English and number 
13/31/91-301, dated the 19th 
June, 1993, published in Hindi. 

(xxviii) Sehatpur 

(xxix) Agwanpur 


(xxvi) 

(xxvii) 


(xxx) 

Ismailpur 

(xxxi) 

Basantpur 

(xxxii) 

Salarpur 

(xxxiii) 

Nasirpur 

(xxxiv) 

Aslatpur 

(xxxv) 

Mowali 

(xxxvi) 

Baselwa 

(xxxvii) 

Palwali 

(xxxviii) 

Lakkarpur 

Second Schedule 

(See Section 331) 

Part I 

Purposes to which premises may not be used without a 
licence. 

1 . Banking 

2. Cinematograph films, shooting of- 

3. Cinematograph film by any process whatsoever, 
Treating of- 

4. Chillies or masala or com or seeds, Grinding of by 
mechanical means 

5. Cloth, yarn or leather in indigo or in other colours, 
Dyeing or printing of- 

6. Cloth or yarn bleaching 

7. Keeping of an eating house or a catering 
establishment 

8. Grain, Parching 

9. Groundnut seeds, tamarind seeds or any other seeds, 
Parching 

10. Keeping of Hairdressing Salloon or a barber’s shop 

1 1 . Hides or skin, whether raw or dried tanning, pressing 
or packing 

12. Keeping a laundry shop 

13. Leather goods, Manufacturing or by mechanical 
means 

14. Keeping of a litho Press 

15. Keeping of a lodging house 

16. Metal Casting 

17. Precious metals, Refining of or recovering of the 
from embroideries 

18. Keeping of a Printing Press 

19. Keeping a sweetmeat shop except in premises already 
licensed as an eating house 

20. Carrying on the trade or business of or any operation 
connected with the trade of- 


(0 

Autocar or autocycle servicing or repairing 

(ii) 

Blacksmithy 

(iii) 

Coppersmithy 

(iv) 

Eletroplating 

(v) 

Glass beveling 

(vi) 

Glass cutting 

(vii) 

Glass polishing 

(viii) 

Goldsmithy 

(ix) 

Marble cutting, grinding, dressing or 
polishing 

(x) 

Metal (ferrous or non-ferrous or antimony 
but excluding precious metal) cutting or 
treating metal by harmoring drilling, 
pressing, filling, polishing, heating or by 
any other process whatever or assembling 
parts of metal. 

(xi) 

Photography-studio 

(xii) 

Radio (wireless 

receiving set) selling, repairing, servicing or 
manufacturing 

(xiii) 

Silversmithy 

(xiv) 

Spinning or weaving 

cotton, silk, art silk or jute or wool with the 
aid of power 

(XV) 

Stones grinding, cutting, 
dressing or polishing 

(xvi) 

Timber or wood sawing 
or cutting, by mechanical or electric power 

(xvii) 

Tinsmithy 

(xviii) 

Washerman’s trade 

(xix) 

Welding of metal by 

electric, gas or any process whatsoever. 

2 1 . Manufacturing Parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, 
cleansing, boiling, molting, grinding or preparation 
by any process whatever any of the following 
articles- 


(0 

Aerated waters 

(ii) 

Bakelite goods 

(iii) 

Bidis (indigenous 

cigarettes) snuff, cigars or 
cigarettes 

(iv) 

Bitumen 

(v) 

Blasting powder 

(vi) 

Bones 

(vii) 

Bricks or tiles by hand 
power 

(viii) 

Bricks or titles by 
mechanical power 

(ix) 

Brushes 

(x) 

Candles 

(xi) 

Catgut 

(xii) 

Celluloid or celluloid 

goods 

(xiii) 

Cement concrete 

designs or models 

(xiv) 

Charcoal 

(xv) 

Chemicals 

(xvi) 

Cinematograph films 

stripping in connection with 
any trade 

(xvii) 

Cosmetics or toilet 

goods 

(xviii) 

Cotton, cotton refuse, 

cotton waste, cotton yam, 
silk, silk yarn, silk inclusive 
of waste yarn, art silk, art 
silk waste, art silk yam, 
wool or woolen refuse or 
waste 


(xix) 

Cotton seeds 

(xx) 

Dammar 

(xxi) 

Dynamite 

(xxii) 

Fat 

(xxiii) 

Fireworks 

(xxiv) 

Flax 

(xxv) 

Ink for printing, writing, 
stamping etc. 

(xxvi) 

Gas 

(xxvii) 

Ghee 

(xxviii) 

Glass or glass articles 

(xxix) 

Gunpowder 

(xxx) 

Hemp 

(xxxi) 

Ice (including dry Ice) 

(xxxii) 

Insecticide or 

disinfectants 

(xxxiii) 

Leather cloth or rexina 
cloth or water proof cloth 

(xxxiv) 

Lime 

(xxxv) 

Lineseed oil 

(xxxvi) 

Matches for lighting 
(including Bengal matches) 

(xxxvii) 

Mattresses and pillows 

(xxxviii) 

Offal 

(xxxix) 

Oil cloth 

(xl) 

oil other than petroleum 
(either by mechanical 
power or by hand power or 
ghani driven by bullock or 
any other animal) 

(xli) 

Pharmaceutical or 

medical products 

(xlii) 

Rubber or rubber goods 

(xliii) 

Paints 

(xliv) 

Paper or cardboard 

(xlv) 

Pickers from hides 

(xlvi) 

Pitch 

(xlvii) 

Plastic goods 

(xlviii) 

Pottery by hand power 

(xlix) 

Pottery by mechanical 
or any power other than 
hand power 

(1) 

Sanitary- ware china- 

ware 

(H) 

Soap 

(hi) 

Sugar 

(liii) 

Sweetmeat and 

confectionery goods 

(liv) 

Tallow 

(lv) 

Tar 

(lvi) 

Varnishes 

(lvii) 

Wooden furniture, 

boxes, barreis, khokas or 
other articles of wood or of 
plywood or of sandal wood. 

22. ~ [Commercial shop. Workshop or Factories covered 
by the Indian Factories Act whether specified 
elsewhere or not and from which any one of these i.e. 
nuisance, noise, smoke or unwholesome smell arises 
or wherein the inflammable material is stores, 
whether the manufacturing or storage is done by self 
or on contract or otherwise. 

23. Premises used as commercial shops, workshop or 
engine house driven by electric power or oil engine 
for more than 2 H.P. 

24. Premises used for the sale of Kerosene oil. 

25. Premises used for the manufacture of mutton tallow 
or oil boiling house. 

26. Premises used for manufacture, whole-sale or storage 


of grease, soda, caustic, acid, paints, salt-petre, 
Sulphur, naptha, mercuty, turpentine, resin, spirits, 
wine or any other dangerously inflammable oil, 
liquids or material. 

27. Premises used for the retail sale of grease, soda, 
caustic, acid, paints, salt-petre, Sulphur, mercury, 
turpentine, resin or any other dangerously 
inflammable liquids or materials. 

28. Premises used for the manufacture of Iron Tanks, 
Tins, Utensils or any trade involving hammering of 
metal. 

29. Premises used for wholesale of Ghee, Hydrogenated 
vegetable oil or any other cooking oil. 

30. Premises used for retail sale of Ghee, Hydrogenated 
vegetable oil or any other cooking oil. 

3 1 . Premises used for making cloth by powerlooms. 

32. Bhatti or any other manufacturing or commercial 
shop or workshop of engine house or store house or 
place or business from which offensive or 
unwholesome smell, noise or smoke arises not 
specifically mentioned in the above clause. 

33. Premises used for cold storage, cinema or video 
house. 

34. Premises used for manufacture and storage of 
tabacco. 

35. Premises used by Rice shellers. 

36. A yard, depot or place of storage for Thatching grass, 
Sirki, Wan, Munj-rope, Kanna, San, Khajgur, leaves, 
coconut, fibre, un-slaked lime, bamboos baskets. 

37. Private nursing home (O.P.D.) 

38. Private nursing home (indoor). 

39. Agencies of Jeep, Car Truck etc. 

40. Agency of two wheelers. 

41. Tent House. 

42. Marriage place]. 


PART II 

Articles which may not be stored in any premises 
without a licence 

1 . Asafetida 

2. Ashes 

3. Bamboos 

4. Bidi leaves 

5. Blasting powder 

6. Blood 


7. Bones, bone meal or bone powder 

8. Camphor 

9. Carbide of calcium 

10. Cardboard 

1 1 . Calluloid for celluloid goods 

12. Charcoal 

13. Chemicals liquid 

14. Chemicals, non-liquid 

15. Chillies 

16. Chlorate mixture 

17. Cinematograph fihns-non-inflammable or 
acetate or safety base 

18. Cloth in pressed bales or boras 

19. Cloth or clothes of cotton, wool, silk, art silk etc. 

20. Coal 

21. Coconut fibre 

22. Coke 

23. Compound gas, such as oxygen gas, hydrogen 
gas, nitrogen gas, carbon dioxide gas, sulpher 
dioxide gas, chlorine gas, acetyalom gas, etc. 

24. Copra 

25. Cotton including Kohok, surgical cotton and 
silky cotton 

26. Cotton refuse or waste or cotton yarn refuse or 
waste 

27. Cotton seed 

28. Detonaters 

29. Dry leaves 

30. Dynamite 

3 1 . Explosive paint such as nitrocellulose paint 
lacquer paint, enamel paint etc. 

32. Fat 

33. Felt 

34. Fins 

35. Fire wood 

36. Fire works 

37. Fish (dried) 

38. Flax 

39. Fulminate 

40. Fulminate of mercury 

41. Fulminate of silver 

42. Golatino 

43. Golignite 

44. Grass 

45. Gun-cotton 

46. Gunpowder 


47. Gunny Bags 

48. Hair 

49. Hay or fodder 

50. Hemp 

5 1 . Hessain cloth (gunny-bag cloth) 

52. Hides (dried) 

53. Hides (raw) 

54. Hoofs 

55. Horns 

56. Incense or esas 

57. Jute 

58. Khokas, boxes, barrels, furniture or any other 
article of wood 

59. Lacquer 

60. Leather 

61. Matches for lighting (including Bengal matches) 

62. Mathylated spirit, denatured spirit or French 
polish 

63. Nitro-Cellulose 

64. Nitro-Compound 

65. Nitro glycerine 

66. Nitro-mixture 

67. Offal 

68. Oil, other than Petroleum 

69. Oilseeds including almonds, but excluding 
cotton seeds 

70. Old paper or waste paper including old 
newspapers, periodicals magazines, etc. 

7 1 . Packing stuff (paper cutting) 

72. Paints 

73. Paper other than old paper in pressed bales or 
loose or in reams 

74. Petroleum, other than dangerous petroleum, as 
defined in the Petroleum Act, 1934 

75. Phosphorus 

76. Plastic or plastic goods 

77. Plywood 

78. Rags, including small pieces or cutting of cloth, 
hessain cloth, gunny-bag cloth, silk, art silk or 
woolen cloth 

79. Resin or dainmer Batter otherwise known as Ral 

80. Safety fuses, feg signals, carridges, etc. 

81. Saltpetre 

82. Sandal wood 

83. Silk waste or silk yarn waste, art silk waste or art 
silk yarn waste 


84. Sisalfibre 

85. Skins (raw dried) 

86. Straw 

87. Sulphur 

88. Tallow 

89. Tar, ditch, dammer or bitumen 

90. Tarpauline 

91. Thinner 

92. Timber 

93. Turpentine 

94. Varnish 

95. Wool (raw) 

96. Yam other than waste yarn 

THIRD SCHEDULE 

(See Section 380) 

PENALTIES 

Explanation. - The entries in the second column of the 
following table headed ‘Subject’ are not intended as definition 
of the offences prescribed in the provision mentioned in the 
first column or even at abstracts of the provisions, but are 
inserted merely as reference to the subject thereof: - 

TABLE 


Section, 

Subject 

Fine or 

Daily 

1 

2 

3 

4 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Section 

Failure to give 

500 

50 

Section 

Failure to produce 

500 

50 

Section 

Failure to give 

500 

- 

Section 

Failure to give 

500 

50 

removal of building 

Section 

Failure of comply 

500 

- 

104 

with requisition to 
furnish infonnation, 

etc. 

Section 

Wilful delay or 

500 

- 

108, sub- 

obstruction of 

section (2) 

valuers 

Section 

Prohibition of 

500 

50 

122 

advertisement 
without pennission 

Section 

Failure to give 

500 

50 

137 

notice of re- 
occupation of 
vacant land or 
building 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

- 

142, sub- 

with the requisition 

section (2) 

of attendance 
before the 
Commissioner 

Section 

Failure to disclose 

500 

- 

145 

liability 

Section 

Failure to give 

500 

- 

180 

notice 

Section 

Prohibition to 

500 

50 

182 

occupy new 
premised without 
arrangement for 
water supply 

Section 

Refusal of 

500 

- 

188 

admittance, etc. 

Section 

Laying of water 

500 

50 

191, sub- 

pipes, etc. in a 

section (1) 

position where the 
same may be 
injured or water 
therein polluted 

Section 

Construction of 

500 

50 

191, sub- 

latrines, etc., to a 

section (2) 

position where 
pipes may be 
injured or water 
therein polluted 

Section 

Injury to, or 

500 

50 

195 

interference with 

flow of contents of 
Municipal drain or 
drains 

communicating 
with Municipal 
drain 

Section 

Private drain not to 

500 

50 

195, sub- 

be connected with 

section (20 

Municipal drain 
without notice 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

50 

197 

with requisition for 
drainage of 
undrained premises 

Section 

Erection of new 

1,000 

100 

198 

premises without 
drains 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

50 

199 

with requisition of 
maintenance of 

drainage works for 
any group or block 
of premises 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

50 

200 

with direction to 
close or limit the 
use of private 
drains in certain 

cases 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

- 

201 

with 

Commissioner’s 
order regarding the 
use of a drain by a 
person other than 
the owner thereof 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

- 

202 

with requisition for 
keeping sewage and 
rain water drains 
distinct 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

- 

203 

with requisition for 
the pavement of 
courtyard, etc. 

Section 

Connection with 

500 

50 

205 

Municipal Water 
works of drains 
without written 
permission 

Section 
208, sub- 
section (4) 

Non-compliance 
with requisition to 
close, remove or 
divert a pipe or 
drain 

500 

50 

Section 
214, sub- 
section (1) 

Execution of work 
by a person other 
than a licenced 
plumber 

500 

Section 
214, sub- 
section (2) 

Failure to furnish 
when required, 
name of licensed 
plumber employed 

500 

Section 
214, sub- 
section (6) 

Licensed plumbers 
not to demand more 
than the charges 
prescribed 

500 

Section 
214, sub- 
section (8) 

Licensed plumbers 
not to contravene 
bye-law or 
executive work 
carelessly, or 
negligently etc. 

500 

Section 

215 

Prohibition of 
willful of neglectful 
acts relating to 
water or sewage 
works 

500 

Section 
223, sub- 
section (3) 

Construction of 
building within the 
regular line of 
street without 
permission 

2,000 

200 

Section 

228 

Failure to comply 
with requisition to 
set forward 
building to regular 
line of street 

500 

50 

Section 
23 1 , sub- 
section (5) 

Utilising, Setting or 
otherwise dealing 
with any land or 
laying out a private 

500 

50 

street otherwise 
than in conformity 
with orders of the 
Corporation 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

50 

232, sub- 

with requisition to 

sections 

show cause for 

(1), clauses 

alteration of street 

(a) and (b) 

or for appearance 
before the 

Commissioner 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

50 

233, sub- 

with requisition on 

section (1) 

owner of private 
street or owner of 
adjoining land or 
building to level, 
etc. such street 

Section 

Prohibition of 

Imprisonment 

100 

235, sub- 

projections upon 

for one 

section (1) 

street, etc. 

month or Rs. 
1,000 or both 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

50 

235, sub- 

with requisition to 

section (2) 

remove projections 
from street 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

50 

236, sub- 

with requisition to 

section (2) 

remove a verandah, 
balcony, etc. put 
out in accordance 
with section 236 (1) 

Section 

Failure to comply 

1,000 

50 

237 

with requisition to 
have ground floor 
doors, etc. so 
altered as not to 
open outwards 

Section 

Erection, etc. of 

1,000 

100 

238, sub- 

structure or fixtures 

section (1) 

which cause 
obstruction in 
streets 

Section 

Deposit, etc. of 

500 

- 

238, sub- 
section (2) 

things in streets 

Section 
24 1 , sub- 
sections (1) 
and (2) 

Tethering of 
animals and 
milking of cattle in 
public streets 

500 

Section 
242, sub- 
section (4) 

Unlawful removal 
of bar or sorting 
timber etc., or 
removal or 
extinction of light 

500 

Section 
243, sub- 
section (1) 

Streets not to be 
opened or broken 
up and building 
material not to be 
deposited thereon 
without pennission 

500 

50 

Section 
245, sib- 
section (2) 

Name of street and 
number of house 
not be destroyed or 
defaced etc. 

500 

Section 
246, sub- 
section (1) 

Failure to comply 
with requisition to 
repair, project or 
enclose a dangerous 
place 

500 

50 

Section 
248, sub- 
section (1) 

Removal etc. of 
lamps 

500 

Section 
248, sub- 
section (2) 

Wilfully and 
negligently 
extinguishing light 

500 

Section 

250 

Erection of a 
building without 
the sanction of the 
Commissioner 

5,000 

500 

Section 
251, sub- 
section (1) 

Failure to give 
notice of intention 
to erect a building 

500 

Section 

252 

Failure to give 
notice of intention 
to make additions, 
etc., to buildings 

500 

50 

Section 
255, sub- 
section (4) 

Commencement of 
work without 
notice, etc. 

2,000 

200 

Section 

257 

Failure to comply 
with requisition to 

500 

50 

round of buildings 
at corners of streets 

Section 

Erection of 

1,000 

50 

258, sub- 

buildings on new 

section (1) 

streets without 
leveling 

Section 

Erection of 

1,000 

- 

258, sub- 

buildings or 

section (2) 

execution of work, 
within regular line 
of street or in 
contravention of 
any scheme for 
plan 

Section 

Use of inflammable 

1,000 

- 

260 

material without 
permission 

Section 

Failure to demolish 

2,000 

200 

261 

buildings erected 
without sanction or 

erection of 
buildings in 
contravention of 
order 

Section 

Erection of 

2,000 

200 

262 

buildings in 
contravention of 
conditions of 
sanction, etc. 

Section 

Failure to carry out 

2,000 

- 

263 

alterations 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

50 

264, sub- 

with revision as to 

sections (1) 

completion 

and (2) 

certificates, 
occupation or use, 
etc. 

Section 

Non-compliance 

1,000 

100 

265, sub- 

with restrictions on 

section (1) 

user of buildings 

Section 

Failure to comply 

2,000 

200 

265, sub- 

with requisition and 

sections (2) 

to remove 

and (3) 

structures which are 
in ruins or likely to 
fall 

Section 
266, sub- 
section (1) 

Failure to comply 
with requisition to 
vacate buildings in 
dangerous 
conditions, etc. 

1,000 

100 

Section 

271 

Failure to provide 
for collection, 
removal and 
deposit of refuse 
and provision of 
receptacles 

500 

50 

Section 

272 

Failure to comply 
with requisition for 
removal of rubbish 
etc. from premises 
used as market etc. 

500 

Section 
273, sub- 
section (1) 

Keeping rubbish 
and fifth for more 
than twenty four 
hours etc. 

500 

50 

Section 
273, sub- 
section (2) 

Allowing fifth to 
flow in streets 

500 

50 

Section 
273, sub- 
section (3) 

Depositing rubbish 
or filth etc. in street 
etc. 

500 

Section 
275, sub- 
section (1) 

Latrines and urinals 
not to be 

constructed without 
permission or in 
contravention of 
terms prescribed 

500 

Section 
277, sub- 
section (1) 

Failure to provide 
buildings newly 
erected or re- 
erected with latrine, 
urinal and other 
accommodation 

1,000 

100 

Section 
277, sub- 
section (3) 

Failure to provide 
residential 
buildings composed 
of separate 
tenements with 
latrine, bathing or 
washing place for 
servants on the 

500 

ground floor 

Section 

Failure to provide 

500 

50 

278 

latrines for 
premises used by 
large number of 
people and to keep 
them clean and in 
proper order 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

50 

279 

with requisition to 
enferce provision of 
latrines or urinal 

etc. 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

50 

280, 

with requisition to 

Clauses 

enforce provision 

(a), (b), (c) 

of latrine or urinal 

and (d) 

accommodation etc. 

Section 

Failure to comply 

1,000 

100 

281, sub- 

with requisition for 

section (2) 

removal of 
congested buildings 

Section 

Failure to comply 

1,000 

- 

282 

with requisition to 
improve buildings 
unfit for human 
habitation 

Section 

Failure to comply 

2,000 

200 

284, sub- 

with order of 

sections (1) 

demolition of 

(2), (3) and 

buildings unfit for 

(4) 

human habitation 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

50 

285 

with requisition of 
the Commissioner 

to remove in 

sanitary huts and 
sheds etc. 

Section 

Prohibition against 

500 

- 

286, sub- 

washing by 

section (1) 

washerman 

Section 

Failure to give 

500 

- 

287 

infonnation of 
dangerous disease. 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

- 

289 

with requisition to 

cleanse and 
disinfect buildings 
or articles 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

290 

with requisition to 
destroy infectious 
huts or sheds 

Section 

Washing of 

500 

291 

clothing, bedding 
etc. at any place not 
notified by the 
Commissioner 

Section 

Sending infected 

500 

293, sub- 

clothes to washer 

section (1) 

man or laundry. 

Section 

Failure to furnish 

500 

293, sub- 

address of washer 

section (2) 

man or laundry to 
which clothes have 
been sent. 

Section 

Use of public 

500 

294, sub- 

conveyances by 

sections 

persons suffering 

(1), (2) and 

from a dangerous 

(3) 

disease etc. 

Section 

Failure to disinfect 

500 

296 

buildings before 
letting the same 

Section 

Disposal of infected 

500 

297 

articles without 
disinfections 

Section 

Making or selling 

500 

298 

of food etc. or 
washing of clothing 
by infected persons 

Section 

Sale of food or 

500 

299 

drink in 

contravention of 
restriction or 
prohibition of the 
Commissioner 

Section 

Removal or use of 

500 

300 

water from wells 
and tanks in 
contravention of 
prohibition of 

Section 

Commissioner 
Exposure of 

500 

301 

persons to risk of 

Section 

infection by the 
presence or conduct 
of a person 
suffering from a 
dangerous disease, 
etc. 

Removal of 

500 

302 

infectious corpses 

Section 

in contravention of 
the provisions of 
the section. 
Absence of 

Imprisonment 

303, sub- 

sweepers, etc., from 

which may 

section (1) 

duty without notice 

extend to one 

Section 

Failure to supply 

month or Rs. 
1,000 or both 
500 

304 

infonnation by 

Section 

persons incharge of 
burning or burial 
grounds 

Use of new burning 

500 

305 

or burial ground 

Section 

without pennission 
Failure to comply 

500 

306, sub- 

with requisition to 

section (1) 

close a burning or 

Section 

burial grounds 
Burning or burial of 

500 

306, sub- 

corpses in a burial 

section (2) 

ground after it has 

Section 

been closed 
Removal of corpses 

500 

307 

by other than 

Section 

prescribed routes 
Failure to give 

500 

308, sub- 

notice for removal 

sections (1) 

of corpse of dead 

clause (b) 

animals 

Section 

Commission of 

500 

309, sub- 

nuisances 

sections 
(1), (2), (3) 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

310 

with requisition for 
removal or 
abatement of 
nuisance 

Section 

Dogs not to be at 

500 

311, sub- 

large in a street 

section (4) 

without being 
secured by a chain 
lead 

Section 

Ferocious dogs at 

500 

311, sub- 

large without being 

section (5) 

muzzled, etc. 

Section 

Stacking 

5,000 

312 

inflammable 
material in 
contravention of 
prohibition 

Section 

Setting a naked 

500 

313 

light 

Section 

Discharging fire- 

500 

314 

works, fire arms, 
etc. likely to cause 
danger 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

315 

with requisition to 
render buildings, 
wells etc., safe 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

316 

with requisition to 
enclose land use for 
improper purposes 

Section 

Sale in municipal 

500 

320, sub- 

markets without 

section (1) 

permission 

Section 

Use of places as 

500 

322, sub- 

private market 

section (1) 

without a license 
and use of places 
other than a 
municipal slaughter 
house as slaughter 
houses. 

Section 

Non-compliance 

500 

322, sub- 

with conditions 

section (2) 

imposed by 

Proviso (a) 

Commissioner 

Section 

Keeping market 

2,000 

- 

324 

open without 
licence, etc. 

Section 

Sale in unlicensed 

500 

- 

325 

market 

Section 

Carrying on 

500 

- 

326 

business or trades 
near a market 

Section 

Carrying on 

500 

50 

329 

butcher, fish- 
monger’s or 
poulterer’s trade 
without licence, etc. 

Section 

Establishment of 

5,000 

500 

330 

factory, etc., 
without pennission 

Section 

Certain things not 

500 

100 

331 

to be kept and 
certain trades and 

operations not to be 
carried on without a 

licence 

32[Section 

Keeping 

300 which 

100 

332 sub- 

abandonment or 

may extend 

section (3) 

tethering of 
animals, etc. 

to 2000 

Section 

Use of premises in 

500 

- 

333 sub- 

contravention of 

section (5) 

declaration 

Section 

Hawking articles 

500 

- 

334 

for sale without a 
licence, etc. 

Section 

Keeping a loding 

500 

50 

335 

house, eating 
house, teashop, etc., 
without licence or 
contrary to licence. 

Section 

Keeping open 

1,000 

100 

336 

theatre circus or 
other place of 
public amusement 
without licence or 

contrary to tenns of 
licence 

Section 

Preventing the 

500 

100 

353 

Commissioner or 
any person 
authorised in this 
behalf from 
exercising his 
powers of entry, 
etc. 

Section 

Preventing the 

500 

354 

Commissioner or 
any person 
authorised in this 
behalf from 
exercising his 
powers of entry 
upon any adjoining 
land 

Section 

Obstruction or 

500 

359 

molestation in 
execution of work 

Section 

Failure to comply 

500 

366 sub- 

with requisition to 

section (4) 

state the name and 
address of owners 
of premises 

Section 

Failure of occupier 

500 

375, sub- 

of land or building 

section (3) 

to afford owner 
facilities for 
complying with 
provisions of the 
order, etc. after 
eight days from 
issue of order by 
District Judge 

Section 

Obstruction of 

500 

405 

Mayor or any 
Corporation 
authority, etc. 

Section 

Removal of any 

500 

406 

mark set up for 
indicating level, 
etc. 

Section 

Removal etc. of 

500 

407 

notice exhibit by or 
under order of the 
Corporation 

50 


Section 

408 


Commissioner, etc. 

Unlawful removal 500 

of earth, sand or 

other material or 

deposit of any 

matter or making of 

any encroachment 

from any land 

vested in the 

Corporation 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 22. 2003 
(JYST. 1, 1925 5AXA) 


187 


iv~ 


F 

i„ 1 • 

T 


L 

f; 


r 

. i 

. ai 

Jts 

£ 

-!( 


t 

i, 

-.t • 
* 

it ■ 

'i' 

T 

'< 

ISv 

t " 

f 

t 

r 


LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 
Noiificaticn 
The 22nd May, 2003 

No. Leg. 17/2003. — The following Acl of the Legislature of die Stale of 
Haryana received the assent of the Governor of Haryana on the 20lh May, 2003, 
and is hereby published Tor general information 

Haryana Act No. l'» of 2003 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT! 

ACT, 2003 

An 

ACT 

further to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act , 1994. 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana h the Fifty-fourth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows : — 

L This Act may be called the Haryana Muicipal Corporation (Amendment) 
Act, 2903. 

2. For sub-section (2) ot section 9 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation 
Act, 1994 (hereinafter called the principal Act), the following sub-section shall be 
substituted, namely : — 

"(2) The State Election Commission shall const ,l the Government 
belore announcing the date of election so that the Government as well 
as the Corporation may. if so requested by La State Election 
Commission, make available to the Stale Election Commission such 
staff as may be necessary for the discharge of the functions conferred on 
the State Election Commission under articles 243 K and 243ZA or the 
Constitution of India and Lhts Act. " , 

3. Existing section 398 of the principal Act shall be renumbered as sub- 
section (1) thereof, and after sub-section (1) so renumbered, the following sub- 
section shall be added, namely : — 

(2) in addition to the directions issued under sub-section (1), the 
Government may also issue directions to the Corporation or the 
Commissioner for carrying out the purposes of this Act and in particular 
with regard to — 

(a) various uses to which any land within the Corporation may be 
put ; 


Short title. 


Amendment of 
section 9 of Haryr 
Act IS of 1994. 


Amendment of 
leeuan 398 of 
Haryana Act 1C 
of 1994. 


(b) repayment of debts and discharging of obligations ; 


-■ t 


' V i 


U 


y 

f 

l 

tv, 


■ . 
x.. 
\ w 


1S8 -HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), MAY 22, 2002 

(JYST. 1, 1925 SAKA) 


(c) collection of taxes ; 

(d) observance of rules and bye-laws ; 

(c) adoption of development measures and measures for promotion 
of public safety, health, convenience and welfare ; 

(f) sanitation and cleanliness ; 

(g) establishment and maintenance of fiid-brigade. ” , 


4 s 

■:U 


R. S. MADAN, 

SecMary.to Government Haryana, 
Legislative Department. 


IS 

f 


349 


* 

I 


. *. 


t- . 

i. 


i 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA), (>Cf. 15. 2003 
(ASVN. 23, 1925 SARA) 

' LEGisU^IVK DFJ^GvRA f 

Notification 


The 15th October. 2003 


i 


i 

k 


i 

\ 

'? 

1 

I 

f 

l 

i. 

t, 


S’ 

\ 

r 

t 

t 

\ 


No. l.rg. 26/2003.— flu; following Act of the Legislature ol'Otc Slate i)f 
Haryana received the assail ofvhc Governor of Haryana on the 7 th October, 2003, 
aid Is hereby published for general information :■ — 

Haryana Act No. 24 of 2003 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (SECOND AMENDMENT) 

ACT, 2003 

An 

,-V'r 

further io amend the Vuiynna Municipal Corporation A cl. 1994. 

lit; it enacted by the Legislature of the State ui Uaryuua in llie !• i I ty- fourth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows - 

1. This Ac1, maybe called the Haryana Municipal Corporation (Second 
AtttetKlmem) Act. 2003 . 

2. In section 2 of the 1 httyana -Municipal Corporation Act, 1 9C4 (hereinafter 
culled the principal Act), ~ 

(i) existing clause U) shall be rcmtttibuted as clause ( I A) and before 
clause (l A) as so renumbered, the lofiowiug clause -lit i! be inserted, 
namely :• — 

\|f "annual value ‘‘ notwithstanding anything contained in any 
other law for the lime being in force, means, — 

(a) in the case of land, the gross annual rent— 

(i) to bo calculated on the basis of fair rent fixed under 
the law relating to rent restriction for the time being 
in force; or 

(ii) where no fair rent referred to in item (i) is fixed, at 
which it is expected to be let or it is actually let, 
whichever L greater : 

Provided that, m the ease of land assessed to 
land-revenue or any other ux in lieu thereof or of 
which the land-revenue has been wholly or in pan 
released, compounded for, redeemed or assigned, the 
annual value shall, if the Stale Government so directs, 
he deemed to be double the aggregate of the 


Short title. 


Amendment of 
section 2 «C 
Haryana Act I A 
ol' )<»>. 


HARYANA GOV T G AX. (liXTKA.), OCX 15, 2003 

{ASVN. 23. 1925 SARA) 

following anumnis, numbly 

^i) ilic amount of'the land-rcvctiitc or any oilier tax in 
lieu thereof for the time being assessed Oil lilt lutul, 
whether such assessment is leviable or ttoc, or when 
(lie land-revenue luis been wholly or in part 
compounded for or redeemed, the amount which, but 
for such composition or redemption, would have 
been leviable; imc. 

(::} when the improvement of the land due to canal 
irrigation lias been excluded from account in 
assessing the land revenue, the amount of owner's 
rate or water advantage rate, or oilier rate imposed in 
respect ofsuch improvement; 

(b) i:t the case of any lane on which no building has been 
erected, but on which a building can be creeled, and on 
any land on which a building is in the process ol erection, 
five percent of she estimated market value of (he land; 

(ej in the case of any house or bwilding whether seif occupied 
or peunr tod, five pci t smimon the sum obtained by adding 
the estimated present cost of erecting the building, less 
such (i mount as the Government may (teem reasonable to 
be deducted on account ol depreciation, if any, to the 
estimated market value of the site and any land attached 
to die house or building: 

Provided that — 

(i) in the calculation of the annuel value of any premises, 
no account shall be taken of any machinery thereon; 

(ii) the basis of assessing the present market value of 
the land, the cost of erecting the building and 
depreciation shall be such as maybe decided by the 
Government. Different rates may be determined for 
different categories of building and land; 

(iii) if the actual annua! rent received by the owner is 
higher than the annual value as determined, then the 
actual annual rein shall be deemed to be the annual 
value for the purpose of this Act; 

fiv) the menial value of the building so determined shall 
be subject ;o a deduction of ten percent for the cost 
of repairs anJ other expenses necessary for the 
proper mam'eut'cccofthc building; 


35) 


HARYANA GOVT, GAZ. (HXTRAA. OCT. 15, 2003 
(ASVN. 23, 1925 SAKA ) __ 

(v) when a building is occupied uy ’die owner under such 
exceptional circumstances as to render a valuation 
ai five per centum on die cos* of eroding live building, 
less depreciation, excessive, a lower pc coinage may 
be taken;*; 

(ii; after ealusc (3). the following clause shall be- inserted, namely : — 

‘(3 A) " Collector's rate" means the value of land assessed by the 
Deputy Commissioner every year by exercising liis authority 
as District Collector for the purpose of assessing Ihe value ot 
stamp duty at the time of registration of sale duuls of land;'; 

(iii) Ibr clause (36), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:— 
"(3(>) "owner", - 

(a) when used with reference to any building, and land, 
ineiudes- 

(i) the person who receives the rent thereof or who would 
he entitled to receive the rent thereof if the same were 
let ; 

(ii) an agent or trustee who receives such rent on account 
of die owner ; 

(iii) an agent or trustee who receives the rent of or is 
entrusted with or concerned for, any premises devoted 
to religious or charitable purposes : 

(iv) a receiver, or manager, appointed uy any court ol 
competent jurisdiction to have the charge of, or to 
exercise the rights of an owner of the said premises; 

{ v j a mortgagee in possession; and 

(b) when used with reference to tiny animal, vehicle or boat, 
includes i lie person fur the time being in charge of l lie 
animal, vehicle or the boat;'; 

(iv) clause (d 7). shall bo omitted. 

3. for section 6 of the principal Act, the following seelior. shall be 
s j'r slit uled. namely : — 

"(). Fixation of seats oT Corporation. — ( l ) Alter every official 
census, the total number of seats shall be fixed by the Government on the 
basis oflatest census figures. In case certain area is included, or excluded 
fiom the limns of a Corporation, lire population shall be ascertained on 
the spot in respect of such area ami shall be added to, or excluded (rum 
t.'ie latest census figures of that Corporation for the purpose of re-fixation 
of seats. 


Substitution of 
section 6 of 
llilfyann Act 16 
at’ 1094. 


W.rr.'jmi'IU »r 
cm™ S7 of 
•i.-rjtn; Act If 


ffclllSSIOll of 
s-t.'ioji If I of 
Hjijjuj Act tfi 


I 1 ARYAN A GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), OCT. 15, 2003 

( ASVN. 23, 1925 SAKA) 

(2) For the purpose of election ofmembers the municipal area shall 
be divided into wards in such manner that the population of each of the 
wards, so fat ns may be practicable, be fifteen thousand. 

(3) Wards shall, as far as practical; te, be geographically compact 
areas, and having regard to physical let lures, existing boundaries ol 
administrative units, if any, facilil.js of communication and public 
convenience. 

(4) The population of each ward, as far as practicable, should be 
the same throughout the Corporation with a variation upto 10 percent 
above or below the average population per ward. 

(5) Wards reserved for the members of Scheduled Castes and 
Backward Classes shall, as far as practicable, be located in those areas 
where the proportion of their population to the total population of the 
Corporation is the largest. 

Explanation.— Here "population" means the population as 
ascertained locally by the staff, deputed by the Commissioner, after going 
from door to door in the Corporation.". 

4. in section 87 oTthe principal Act, — 

(i) for clause (a) of sub-section {!), the following clause shall be 

substituted, namely : — 

"(a) a tax payable by ihe owner on buildings and lands which shall 
not be less than two and a fiaif per centum and more than 
fifteen per centum, as the State Government may, by notification 
direct, of the annual value of .such buildings and lands;”; 

(ii) in sub-section (2), after clause (o). the following clause shall be 

inserted, namely : — 

"(ce) a tax on driving licenses issued under the Motor Vehicles Act, 
1988 (Act 59 of 1988), within the Corporation area;”. 

5. Section 91 of the principal Act shall be omitted. 


v:bSil;:[io‘t G! 

aliens 93 and 
-t of Haryana 
«t !f> of 1994. 


6. For sections 93 and 94 of the principal Act, the following sections shall 
be substituted, namely : — 

"93. Incidence of tax on lands and buildings. — (1) Ifany land has 
been let to a tenant and such tenant has erected building upon the land, 
the lax on lands and buildings payable under clause (a) of sub-section 
( 1 ) of section 87 in respect of that land end the building erected thereon, 
shall be primarily payable by the tenant. In ease the tenant vacates llte 
said building or land, it shall be the liability of the owner to pay the said 


‘ - - ■■ 1 ■- ■ : *■. i*-?. : ,r ' Z : it Ir-i, 'ft- > k >> 


353 


V 


t- 


[1 ARYAN A GOVT. CiAZ. (EXTRA.). OCT 15, 200.' 

{ ASVN. 23, '025 SARA, , 

The term ‘tenant’ includes .my person deriving title; 
in the land or budding erected upon such i.md from the t.-nunt whether 
by operation oi law orb} iranstvv inter vivos. 

(2) The assessment. levy ami payment of the tax u.t buildings ami 
lands shall not in anyway confer ;«iy right. title or interest in the properly 
upon either the owner or the occupier and shall nut be a proof of the fact 
that the building is an authorise J one and Fiuther that any building or 
pai l thereof which is erected in contravention of the existing building 
bye- lavs or town planning regulationsfscUcrue shall not yet regularised 
by virtue of being assessed to tax on buildings and lands. 

94. Apportionment olTudiiitty of taxes on buildings nnd lands 
when premises assessed ore let or sub-let. — any building or land 
assessed to tax specified in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section S7 is 
let and its annual value exceeds the amount of rent payable in respect 
thereof then the tenant shall be liable to pay the difference between (he 
amount of the said tax levied upon the owner nnd the amount which 
would have been levied upon the owner iJ'lhe said tax were calculated on 
the amount of rent payable to him. In cast: the tenant vacates the said 
building or laud then it shall be the liabili ty of lire cwruvlo pay the said 
tax ' 

Provided that Ibe tenancy agreements be '.veer, the relatives 

sv shall not be covered under this section. ", 

7. Tor section 100 of the principal Act, the following section shall be 
substituted, namely : — 

" 100. New list need not lie prepared every year. — it shall be in the 
discretion of the Corporation to prepare for the whole; or any pan of the 
Corpw ation men a new assessment list every year or to adopt the 
valuation and as.scssrr.enl contained in the list hr any year, with such 
alterations as may, in particular cases, be deemed necessary, by giving 
nonce ofthc revised valuation and assessment to the affected persons if 
such alterations in the valuation ami assessment is caused for the reasons 
other titan change in regard to Collector's rate, cost of construction as 
determined by die Government and depreciation : 

Provided that the valuation and assessment contained in the list for 
any year shall not be adopted fora period exceeding five years.". 

8. For section 133 of the principal Act, tire, f. 1 -wing section shall be 
substituted, namely : - 

” 1 33. Remission of tax on unoccupied building. — - f 1 ) When any 
building assessed to a tax under clause (a) of sub-section < 1 ) of 
section 87 which is payable by the year or by instalments, lias remained 
unoccupied and unproductive of rent throughout the year o: the period 


SllbstillHHHI <>f 
sect iii n 100 of 
Hagans Act 16 
of toon. 


Subsliinl.oii of 
ii-oiion J.VJ of 
I h,-);o>a Act 15 
of 1094, 


354 


. ? 

.t, 

L 

TV 

t 

f 

f. - 

i' 

.'*• 

$ 

t 


( 

t 

JK . 

i 


V 


» 


ft. 


r. 

j 

f 

* 

5 . 

V: 

?■ 

i 


SuSttililUW ul 
"luieulik- 
value*' \\tlh iiu: 

i\i>tJa "iii'iiUiUi 

valu^" :n 

A el 

oi i yy-i. 


HARYANA GOVT. OAZ. (EXTRA.), OCT. 15, 2003 

(ASVN. 23, 3 025 SAKA) 

iii respect of which any instalment is payable, the Corporation shall remit 
die amount oi' tile lax or or" the instalment, as the ease may be: 

Provided that no Midi remission shall he granted unless notice in 
writing of the circiitiisirinces under which it is claimed lias been given to 
tiie Corporation within the first month after the expiry of die period in 
respect ol'wlrieli it is so claimed. 

(2j when any such building :,s aforesaid ■- 

(a) has no! been occupied or productive of rent for any period of 
not less than sixty consecutive days; or 

(b) consists of separate tenements, one or more of which lias or 
have not been occupied or productive of rent for any such 
period as aforesaid; or 

(c) is wholly or in greater pan demolished or destroyed by fire or 
otherwise, 

die Corporation may remit such portion, if any, of die lax or 
instalment as it may think equitable. 

(3) The burden of proving the facts entitling any person to claim relief 
under this section shall lie noun him. 

(4) For the purposes of (his section neither the presence of a caretaker 
nor the mere retention in an otherwise unoccupied dwelling house 
of the furniture habitually used in it shall constitute occupation of 
the house. 

(5) For the purposes of this section a house shall be deemed to be 
productive of rent if lei to a tenant who has a continuing right oT 
occupation thereof, whether it is actually occupier) by such tenant 
or not. 

(6) The enquiry necessary for a decision whether any relief should be 
granted under this section shall be held by the Commissioner who 
shall make such recommendation to the Corporation as he may deem 
proper : 

Provided dial the Corporation shall not grant any remission 
of tax unless the Commissioner recommends such remission. 

(7) k-1 f the remission of tux is granted on buildings under this section, 

then the tax shall be payable an the hind underneath the buildings 
as on vacant land.". 

y. lu the principal Act, for the words "rateable value" wherever occurring, 
die words "annual value" shall be substituted. 


-■ - VxY- 


MARYANA GO v'T. GAZ. (F.XTRA.), OCT. 15, 200.1 
( ASVN. 23, 1025 SAKAi 


355 


i 

X 

> . 

4- 

1 

1 

I 


1 


>■ 

l 


3 


10. (1) The ilaryana Municipal Corporation (Second A niendnicnl) 

Ordinance, 2003 (1 1 ary ana Ordinance No.2 of 2003), is hereby repealed. 


(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done -'r any aciion la ken 
under tile principal Aet, as amended by ihe said Ordinance, shall lie deemed to have 
been done or taken under the principal Act, as amended by ihis Act. 


R.S. MAHAN, 

.Secretary to Cover intent Haryana, 
Legislative Department. 


IvcjU’jl :mif 
s;!vinu. 


} 


4 


i 


V 

3 

i 


i 

) 

i 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), JULY 30, 2004 
( SRVN. 8, 1926 SAKA) 

PART I 

LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 
Notification 


The 30th July, 2004 


R No. Leg. 22/2004. — The following Act of the Legislature of the State of 
J; Haryana received ihe assent of the Governor of Haryana on iheSlh July, 2004, 
eJTand is hereby published for general information : — 

Wi/-. 

j§fc-L Haryana Act No. 20 of 2004 

pv, 

P" ■ THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) 
if ACT, 2004 


further to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, J 9)4. 

Br. it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Fifty-fifth 
' Year of the Republic of India as follows : — 

1. This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal Corporation 
(Amendment) Act, 2004. 

2. For sub-section (I) of section 346 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation 
Act, 1994 (hereinafter called the principal Act), the following 
sub-sccrion shall be substituted, namely : — 

"(1) Notwithstanding any law for the time being in force, the 
Commissioner may, with the previous approval of the 
Government, by notification, declare the whole or any part of 
the area within the Corporation to be a controlled area provided 
tbat the same has not heen declared as controlled area under 
the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction 
of Unregulated Development Act, 1963 (Act 41 of 1963).”. 

3. After section 350 of the principal Act. the following sections shall be 
inserted, namely : — 

“350 A. Offences and penalties. — (1) Any person who— 

(a) erects or re-erccts any building or makes or extends any 
excavation or lays out any means of access to a road in 
contravention of the provisions of section 347 or in 
contravention of any conditions imposed by an order under 
section 349 or section 350; or 


Short title. 


2j$. HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), JULY 30, 2004 

Hi ( SRVN. 8, 1926 SAKA ) 

(b) uses any land in contravention of the provisions of 
j.T sub-section (1) of section 348 or section 350, 

shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years 
or with a fine of not less than ten thousand rupees which may extend to fifty 
thousand ntpees or with both and, in the case of a continuing contravention, 
with a further fine which may extend to one thousand rupees for eveiy day after 
the date of the first conviction during which he is proved to have persisted in 
the contravention. 

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (l), the 
Commissioner may, by notice, served by post and if a person avoids sendee, or 

Yv is not available for service of notice, or refuses to accept service, then by affixing 
f - a copy of it on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of such premises, 

- - or in such other manner as may be prescribed, call upon any person who has 

committed a breach of the provisions referred to in the said sub-section to stop 
further construction and to appear and show cause why he should not be 
ordered to restore to its original state or to bring it in conformity with the 
provisions of the Act or the rules, as the case may be, any building or land in 
respect of whieh a contravention such as described in the said sub-section has 
been committed, and if such person fails to show cause to the satisfaction of the 
Commissioner within a period of seven days, the Commissioner may pass an 
order requiring him to restore such land or building to its original state or to bring 
it in conformity with the provisions of the Act or the rules, as the case may be, 
within a further period of seven days. 

(3) If the order made under sub-section (2) is not carried out within 
the specified period, the Commissioner may himself at the expiry of the period 
of this order, take such measures as may appear necessary to give effect to the 
order and the cost of such measures shall, if not paid on demand being made 
to him, be recoverable from such person as arrears of land revenue : 

Provided that even before the expiry' of seven days period mentioned in 
the order under sub-section (2), if the Commissioner is satisfied that instead of 
stopping the erection or re-erection of the building or making or extending of tbe 
excavation or laying out of the means of access to a road, as the case may be, 
the person continues vrith the contravention, the Commissioner may himself take 
such measures as may appear neeessary to give effect to the order and the cost 
of such measures, shall, if not paid on demand being made ro him, be recoverable 
from such person as arrears of land revenue. 

350B. Duty of police officers. — It shall be the duty of every police 
officer — 


(i) to communicate without delay to Ihe Commissioner or any other 
officer authorized in writing by him. in this behalf, any information 


jpg^-' IIARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), JULY 30, 2004 2$ 

• ( SRVN. 8, 1926 SAKA) 

gfefa’.y..- . which he receives of a design to commit or of the commission 

||ps? of any offence against this Act or any rule or regulation made 

pp--;' thereunder: and 

Pfe.y." (ii) to assist the Commissioner or any other officer authorized in 

M writing by him, in this behalf, in the lawful exercise of any power 

eCv vested in the Commissioner or any other officer authorized in 

gf\ writing by him, in this behalf, under this Act or any rule or 

gp":- ' regulation made thereunder. 

IK:’. 350C. Power to arrest. — (1) A police officer not below the rank of sub- 
inspector shall arrest any person who commits, in his view, any offence against 
this Act or any rule made thereunder, if the name and address of such person 
Be unknown to him and if such person, on demand declines to give his name and 
address, or gives such name or address which such officer has reason to believe 
to be false. 

(2) The person so arrested shall, without unavoidable delay be 
produced before the Magistrate authorized to try the offence for which the arrest 
has been made, and no person, so arrested, shall be detained in custody for a 
’period exceeding twenty-four hours without an order from the above mentioned 
Magistrate.”. 

insr 

If 4. Sections 351 and 351 A of the principal Act shall be omitted. 


R. S. MADAM. 

Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
Legislative Department. 


37977- L.R.— H.Ci.P . CIk!. 


£ 


mm 


402 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), DEC. 7, 2004 
(AGHN, 16, 1926 SAKA) 


py, Short title. 

Bife.'' 

jMfAAmendment of 
.^psasociion 6 of 
^pfiHatyann Act 16 
’"■Of 1994. 


^f Amcndment of 
.. .section 9 of 
££-: Haryana Act )6 
pfcuf 1994. 


LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 
Notification 

The 7th December, 2004 

No. Leg. 29/2004 . — The following Acl of the Legislature of the State of 
Haryana received rhe assent of the Governor of I-Iaryana on the 6th December, 
2004, and is hereby published for general information: — 

Haryana Act No, 27 of 2004 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION 
(SECOND .AMENDMENT) ACT, 2004 

An 

Act 

further to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Fifty-fifth Year 
of the Republic of India as follows : — 

1. This Aet may be called the Haryana Municipal Corporation (Second 
Amendment) Act, 2004. 

2. For sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 
1994 (hereinafter called the principal Act), the following sub-section shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

" (2) For the purpose of election of members, the Municipal area 
shall be divided into wards in such manner, as may be prescribed.”. 

3. After sub-section (2) of section 9 of the principal Act, the following 
sub-sections shall be added, namely : — 

“ (3) In case of reconstitution of the Corporation on account of 
the expiry of its duration of five years, such dale shall not be earlier than 
120 days before the expiry of duration. 

(4) In case of reconstitution of the Corporation on account of 
dissolution of the Corporation, where the remainder of the period for 
which rhe dissolved Corporation would have continued is six months 
or more than six months, such date shall not be later than two months 
after the date of dissolution of the Corporation. 

(5) In case of filling up of casual vacancy, as specified in section 
13, where the remainder of the period for which the casual vacancy to 
be filled up is six months or more than six months, such date shall not be 
later than two months after the date of occurrence of such vacancy. 

(6) Such election shall be conducted in the manner as may be 
prescribed.”. 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. {EXTRA.), DEC. 7, 2004 
(AGHN. 16. 1926 SAKA) 


403 


jplfj- 4. For sub-section (1) if section 14 of the principal Act, the following 
pb-section shall be substituted, namely 


“ (1) AfteT the declaration of general election results, the names 
of elected members shall be published in the Official Gazette by the 
State Election Commission not earlier than one week before the expiry 
of the duration of the existing Corporation : 


Amendment of 
section 14 of 
Haryana Ac; \ 6 
of 1994 


Provided that notification regarding bye-election results shall 
he published in the Official Gazette by the State Election Commission 
forthwith.”. 


R. S. MADAN. 

Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
Legislative Department. 


MARYANA GOVT GAX. (EXTRA ). JULY 18. 2005 
(A.SAR. 27. 1927 SAKA) 


177 


Pari I 

1 ,1'X HSI , ATI VI* DEPARTMENT 
Notification 
The 18ih July, 2005 

No. Leg. 13/2005. — The following Act of the Legislature of the Stale 
of Haryana received the assent of the Governor of Hatyana on the 7th July, 
2005, and is hereby published for general information : — 

Haryana Act No. 9 of 2005 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION 
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 2005 

An 


Act 


Jiirther to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. 

Be il enacted by Cite Legislature of the Sta'c of Haryana in the Fifty- 
sixth Year of the Republic of India a:; follows : — 

1. This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal Corporation Short title. 
(Amendment) Act, 2005. 


2. In sub section (3) of section 4 of the Haryana Municipal 
Corporation Act, 1994 (hereinafter called the principal Act), — 

(a) the following clause shall be added, namely : — 


Amendment of 
section 4 of 
Haryana Act i 6 
of (994. 


"(i) not more than three persons having special knowledge 
or experience in municipal administration 

(b) before the existing proviso, the following proviso shall be 
added, namely 

“Provided that the persons referred to in clause (i) above 
shall not have the right to vote in the meetings of the 
Corporation;"; 

(c) in the existing proviso, lor the words “Provided that’, the 
words “Provided further that" shall be substituted. 

3. In the Third Schedule appended to the principal Act. in the Table 
under columns 1. 2. 3 and 4, lor the words, figures, signs and brackets 


A mend men I »■! 
Thud Schctlii li- 
iu HiiryaiKi A 1 1 
] (> Of 1 994 


**Mr ■»' '— -a, ----- ■/ ('-.-— v .f.; 

I 


178 HARYANA GO VI. GAZ. (EXTRA.), JULY 18, 2005 

f ASAR. 27. 1927 SAKA) 


1 2 

.t 

4 

“Section 332 Keeping, abandonment or 

sub-section (3) tethering of animals, etc. 

500 

the words, figures, signs and brackets 

l 

I 2 

3 

4 

“Section 332 Keeping, abandonment or 
sub-section (3) tethering of animals, etc. 

3(10 which 
may extend 
to 2000 

100” 

shall be substituted. 

R.S. MADAN, 

Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
Legislative Department. 


HARYANA GOVT, CAZ. (EXTRA.). Will. 14, 2007 
(MAGI1. 25, 1928 SAKA) 


67 


PART i 


HARYANA GOVERNMENT 


LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 
Notification 

. • ■ ■■■ • The t4th February. 2007 

No. . Leg. .1/2007, — The following Act of the LegisLture of the 
State of Haryana received the assent of -the President of India on the 
3rd September, 2006, and is hereby published for general information: — 

HARYANA ACT ?IO. 1 OF 2007 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) 

ACT, 2005 

• An 

Act 


further to amend the Haryana Municipal Cc, oration Act , 1994. 

Be ir enacted by the Legislature of the State of l-Iaryanz. i.t the Fifty- 
seventh Yett of the Republic of India as follows : — ■ 


J. This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal Coiporation Shon title., 
(Amendment) Act, 2006, ■ ( 


2. After clause (4) of section 2 of the Ilaryana. Municipal Corporation 
Act, lay* (hereinafter called the principal Act), the following clause shall be 
inserted, namely: — 

*(4A> "competent authority” means the Joint 2 nmmtssioncr of 
: ■ ■ . Corporation;’. 


Amendment of-C 
section ' 2 c:' j;V 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994.,; T 


3. In section 261 Of the principal Act. for the words "District judge" 
wherever occurring, the words “Divisional Commissioner" shall b: substituted; . 


4. After section 408 of the principal Act,- the following sections shall be 
inserted, namely ; — ■ 

' 408A, Power to evict persons trorn Corporation premises/ 
land. — (I) If the competent authority is satisfied — ' ■ 


■Amendment oK f 
' section- 26 1‘pf 'h' 
Haryaua'Act; IG> 
of 1994. ■ 

insertion of " '' \ 
sections 409A 
lo 40SC -in .. 
Haryana Act J6 

of 3994/ 


(a) that any person authorized to occupy any j,’ ctnises of (he 
Corporation has — 

(i) not paid rent lawfully due from hi nr in respect of 
such premises tor a period of more than two months;- 
or v . 


HARYANA GOVT. GA7.. (EXTRA.), FEB. 14 . 2007 
(MAGH. 25. 1928 SAKA) 


(ii) sublet, without the permissic i of the Commissioner 
or any Other officer duly empowered to grunt such 
permission, the whole or any part of such premises; 

■ or ■ 

(in) otherwise acted in contravention ofi any of the 
terms expressed or. implied, under which he .is 
authorised, to occupy .such premises; or r 

L . (b) that any person is in unauthorized occupation of any;,] 
pretnises/land or:1buiiding/stm<:U:re;coiis,tructed -thereon, -1 

, . of the Corporation. 

.. ..... ............... . 

the competent authority may, notwithstanding anything contained; 
in any law,' for the time being in force, by notice served upon him "; 
by post or by person and if such person r.voids service or is not.,; 
available for service of notice or refuses to accept notice, then .by-, 
affixing a copy of it on the outer door or some other' conspicuous 
part of such premises/land or building or by beating of drums or 
in such manner, as may be prescribed, call upon such person to . 
appear and show cause why he should not be ordered to vacate the 
. said premises/land or building/structure, constructed thereon- or 
demolish unauthorized construction and to restore .to, its original; 

- slate or to bring it in conformity with the provisions of this Act or 
■ rules framed thereunder, as the case may , be, within a period of 
seven days from the date of service of the notice , 

(2) If such person fails to show cause to the satisfaction 'of 
the competent authority or fails to .. ’pear or refuses to appear 
before the competent authority, as the case' may be, within a period - 
of seven days, the competent authority shall' pass an order requiring 
him to vacate such premises/land or build, ng/structure constructed, 
thereon or demolish unauthorized consif..et on and '.restore to its 
original state or to, bring it in conform ty with the provisions of 
this Act or the rules framed thereunder, nr the case may be, within 

a further period of seven days. ' 

(3) If the order made under sub-section (2) is not carried out r 
or. complied with within the specified, oeriod, the; competent- 
authority at the expiry of the period so specified, shall evict that 
person irom. and take possession of, the premises/land or -building/. ” 


3 


HARYANA CIOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), FED. 14, 2007 69 

(MAGH. 25, 1928 SAKA) 

Structure constructed I hereon or demolish unauthorized cnn.sttuctiun 
ot restore ter its original slate or bring it in conformity with the 
provisions of this Act or the rules framed thereunder, as the ease may 
be, and shall for that purpose use such force, as may be necessary and 
the cost incurred on such measures shall, if not paid on demand, being 
made to him, be recoverable from such person as arrears of land 
revenue. 

(4) Even before the expiry of a further period of seven days 
mentioned under sub-section (2), if the competent authority is 
satisfied that instead of vacation of premiscs/iand or building/ 
structure constructed (hereon or demolition of unauthorized 
construction, as the case may be, the person continues with the 
contravention, the competent authority shall himself take such 
measures and use such force as may appear necessary to give 
effect to the order under sub-section (2) and the cost of such 
measures shall if not paid on demand being made to him, be 
recoverable from such person as arrears of land revenue. 

(5) If a person, who has been ordered to vacate any premises/ 
land or building/slruclurc constructed thereon, under sub-section 
(2) in view of !hi* conditions as specified under sub-clause (i> or 
(iii) of clause (a) of sub-section (l) within a period of seven days 
from the date of service or the notice, (rays the lent in arrears or 
carries out or otherwise complies with die terms contravened by 
him, to the satisfaction of tire competent authority, as the cast*, may 
be, the competent authority shall, in lieu of the eviction t f ,a ch 
person under sub-section (3) cancel the order made L.tdcr 
sub-seciion (2) and thereupon such person shall hold the premises on 
the terms on which he held them immediately before sucli notice was 
served on him. 

403D. Appeal.— (1) Any person aggrieved by an order of (lie 
competent authority under sub-section (2) of section 40SA may. within 
a pci iod of seven days from the dale of the order under sub-section 
(2) of section 40tSA, prefer an appeal to the Commissioner. 

(2) Where an appeal is preferred under sub-section (I), the 
Commissioner may stay the enforcement of the order of t ic 


70 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.). FHR M, 2007 
(MAGI I. 13. TV’S SAKA) 


competent authotity for such period and c n mjcIi conditions. as it 
deems fit. 

(3) livery appeal under i!us sea ion shall be disposed of by the 
Commissioner within a period of sixty days, 

408C. Finality of order. — Save as otherwise expressly provided 
in this Act. every order made by she compclunl authority tinder 
section 4Q8A or by the Commissioner under section 408B shall be 
final and shall not be called in question in any original suit, application 
or execution proceedings and no injunction shall be granted by any 
court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken 
in pursuance of any power conferred by or under sections 408A anti 
408E5 of this Act.”. 


M. S. S'JLL.AR, 

.Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
Legislative Department. 


4224K— L.R.—H CHS. Did. 


170 


'A 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.). APR. 

(C'lfTR. 21, I‘>2‘> SARA) 


i, 2007 


5 


HARYANA GOVERNMENT 
LEG1SI .ATI VE OliPARTMKW 
Ncittfiml t/in 


'I'hc 11th April. 200/ 

No. Leg. 14/2007. — The following Act of the Legislature of the State of 
Haryana received the assent of the Governor of Haryana on the 7th April, 2007, 
and is hereby published for general information : — 

HARYANA ACT NO. 13 OF 2007 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) 

ACT, 2007 


An 


Act 

further to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1094. 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the Slate of Haryana in the Fifty-eighth 
Year nf itv Republic of India u> killuwn : — 

Shott title. 1. This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal Corporation 

( Amendment) Act, 2007. 


Amendment of 2. In sub section (2) of section K of the Haryana Municipal Corporation 

section s oi Act, 1954 (hereinafter called the principal Act),— 

Haryana Act Hi 

of 1294. (i) clause (tn) and proviso thereunder shall be omitted and shall be 

deemed to have been omitted with effect from the 1 st January, 2005, 
except in situations where the re-elections after removal have been 
held; 


(ii) after clause (1), the following clauses shill be added at the end. 
namely: — 


Insertion nf 
sections 88. 8C 
and SO in 
Haryana Act 10 
of 199*4 


“(m) if he furnishes a false caste certificate at the time of filing 
nomination and he shall be so disqualified for a period of six 
years from contesting the election of the Corporation; 

(n) it he is convicted or has been convicted of an offence 
punishable under sections 2930 and 3 1 of the principal Act, 
the Prevention of Corruption Act. 19S8 (49 of 1988) or the 
Prevention or Terrorism Act, 2002 (15 of 2002).”, 

3, Alter section 8A ol the principal Act, the following sections shall be 
inserted, namely: — 

“SB. D i T.p 1 9 ‘ 41 • for failure to keep aceoM.n* ^!ee*i?r> 

expenses and maximum thereof.— -( 1 ) Every candidate at an 


0~ 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA,.). A>*R. U. 2007 HI 

(CHTR. 21, 1020 SAKA) 

election bha!!. cither himself or hv hiselcction agent, keep a separate 
.mil eurrcel iueounl nf all vxpendilUl C 111 COiinecU.tl willl the 
elect ion incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent ti om 
die date ot" fiimjiof minima lion papers K> the date ol declaration ill 
the result thereof, both dates inclusive. 

rdi the uccou ia shall contain such particulars, as may be notified by 
Lite State Election Commission in this behalf. 

(3) The total of the said expenditure .shall not exceed such amount as 
tnay be notified by the State Election Comm i soon from time to 
time. 

8C. Making false declaration. — If nay person makes in connection 
with — 

(ot die preparation, revision or correction of an electoral roll ; or 

(b) the inclusion or exclusion of any entry in or from an electoral 
roll, 

a statement or declaration in writing, which is false and which he 
either knows or believes to be false or does not believe to be true, he 
shall be punishable with imprisonmcrii for a term w!v.:h nay extend 
to one month, or with fine which may extend to one Tousand rupees, 
or with both. 

8D. Application of certain sections of Central Acl A3 of 1951 to 
Haryana Acl 16 of 1994.— The provisions of sections 10A.20B, 

28A, 33 A, 33B. 125A, 134A. 134B. 135B and I35C of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Central Acl 43 of 1951), 
shall mutmis nutumdts apply to the provisions of this Act. ’. 

-1. After sue lion 23 of the principal Act, the following section shall be tnscriiun or 
inserted, namely ; — section Z1A in 

Haryana Act 10 

“23 A, Voting machines at elections. — Notwithstanding anything of 1994. 
contained in this Act or the rules made thereunder, the casting and 
recording of votes by voting machines in the Corporation may be 
adopted in such manner as the State Election Commission may, 
having regard lo the circumstances of each case, specify. 

Explanation. — For the purpose of this section "voting maclunc“ 
means any machine nr apparatus whether operated c.ectronically or 
otherwise and used for casting or recording of votes and any 
reference lo a ballot box or ballot paper in Ibis Ac; or the rules made 
thereunder shall, save as otherwise provided, be construed as 
including a reference to such voting machine wherever such voting 
liiaci'Mnt: is used at any ejection." . 


Intel lion n! 
sei'I'.on 'MA in 
Haryana Act 16 

of cm. 


Amendment of 
section 166 of 
Haryana Act 16 

tif I 06 A 


( "2 1 IAKVANA GOVT. CiAZ (l-XTRA.), AJ*K. I!. 200? 

(C! tTR. 21. 1929 SAKA) 

5. Alter seel ton 28 of the principal Act, tne following section shall be 
inserted, namely:— 

“2SA. lireach of official duty in connection with pruptirntiou of 
i>li,rlnnil mil. — (t) If any poison prifiiin ■■ any nlhiia) duty in 
eonnretiuu with tlie prcpaiatioii. revision or correction of the 
electoral roll or inclusion or exclusion of any entry in or from that 
roll, is without reasonable cause, guilty of any act or omission for 
breach of such official duty, he shall be punishable with 
imprisonment for a term which shall nut be less than three months 
but which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend 
to five thousand rupees or with both. 

(2) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any such 
officer or other person for damages in respect of any act or omission 
as aforesaid. 

(3) No court shall take cognisance of any offence punishable under 
sub-section (1) unless there, is a complaint made by order of, or 
under authority front, the S’uAe Election Commission or the Deputy 
Commissioner of the district concerned.”. 

6. In section 166 of the principal Act, — 

fi) for clause ( c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely : — 

“(e) every contract involving cm expenditure not exceeding iwemy lac 
rupees in value or such other higher amount as the Government 
may fix, inny be imuio by tho Commissioner;*'1. 

(ii) in the proviso below clause (d), for the letters, figures and word 
“Rs.lO lacs”, the letters, figures and word “Rs. 50 lacs” shall be 
substituted. 


M.S. SULLAR, 

Secrelary to Government, Haryana. 
Legislative Department. 


42564— L.R.— H.C.P., Clu 


Short title and 
commencement. 


Amendment of 
section 2 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Amendment of 
section 87 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


246 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), OCT. 1, 2012 
(ASVN. 9, 1934 SAKA) 

PART I 

HARYANA GOVERNMENT 
LAW AND LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 
Notification 

The 1st October, 2012 

No. Leg.26/2012 . — The following Act of the Legislature of the State of 
Haryana received the assent of the Governor of Haryana on the 26th September, 
2012, and is hereby published for general information: — 

HARYANA ACT NO. 21 OF 2012 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION 
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 2012. 

An 

Act 

further to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Sixty-third 
Year of the Republic of India as follows : — 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal Corporation 
(Amendment) Act, 2012. 

(2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 
1st April, 2010. 

2. In the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (hereinafter called 
the principal Act), clause (1) of section 2 shall be omitted. 


3. In the principal Act, for clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 87, the 
following clause shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(a) a property tax payable by the owner or occupier of building and 
land at the rates notified by the Government, from time to time 
depending upon the area in which the building or land is 
situated, its location, purpose for which it is used, its capacity 
for profitable use, quality of construction and other relevant 
factors;”. 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), OCT. 1, 2012 
(ASVN. 9, 1934 SAKA) 


247 


4. In the principal Act, after section 87, the following sections shall be 
inserted, namely: — 


“87A. — Self assessment of tax. — Notwithstanding anything 
contained in this Act, every person liable to pay the property tax shall 
himself calculate the tax of the building or land according to the 
procedure notified in this regard, of which he is either owner or the 
occupier at the rates notified under clause (a) of sub- section (1) of 
section 87. 

87B. — Deposit of property tax. — ( 1) On the basis of assessment 
made as per section 87 A, the owner or occupier shall deposit the amount 
of property tax in the specified head of the Corporation as per the 
prescribed procedure on or before the date fixed by the authority and 
furnish a return in the prescribed form. The variation upto ten per cent 
on either side in the assessment made under section 87 A shall be ignored. 
In cases where the variation is more than ten per cent, the owner or 
occupier of land or building, as the case may be, shall be liable to pay 
penalty equal to the amount of tax evaded subject to a minimum of 
rupees one hundred. 

(2) Where any property tax has not been paid by the owner or 
occupier within the prescribed time, the authority shall serve notice on 
the person chargeable with the property tax, which has not been paid, 
requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified 
in the notice and the authority shall pass an appropriate order in this 
regard after giving an opportunity of hearing. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, the authority 
means the Zonal Taxation Officer or any officer authorized by the 
Commissioner of Municipal Corporation. 

' 87C. — Penalties. — In case of non-payment of property tax, the 

competent authority may impose a penalty equal to the amount of the 
tax assessed, subject to minimum of rupees one hundred and in case of 
late payment, interest at the rate of one and a half per centum per 
month from the date of default shall also be charged.”. 

5. In sub-section (1) of section 89 of the principal Act , — 

(i) for clause (b), the following clause shall be substituted, 

namely: — 

“(b) a fire tax;” and 

(ii) clause (c) shall be omitted. 


Insertion of 
sections 87A, 
87B and 87C in 
Haryana Act 
16 of 1994. 


Amendment of 
section 89 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Amendment of 
section 90 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 

Substitution of 
section 94 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Substitution of 
section 97 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Omission of 
section 98 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 

Amendment of 
section 99 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Substitution of 
section 100 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Amendment of 
section 104 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 

Amendment of 
section 127 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


248 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), OCT. 1, 2012 

(ASVN. 9, 1934 SAKA) 


6. In the principal Act, sub-section (2) of section 90 shall be omitted. 


7. For section 94 of the principal Act, the following section shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“94. Apportionment of liability of taxes on land and building 
when premises assessed are let or sub-let — If any building or land 

assessed to tax specified in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 87 is 
let or sub-let and amount of rent payable in respect thereof is less than 
.the property tax, theft the occupier shall be liable to pay the difference 
between the amount of the said property tax and the rent paid by him.”. 

8. In the principal Act, for section 97, the following section shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“97. Property list. — Save as otherwise provided in this Act, 
each Corporation shall cause a property list of all lands and buildings 
in the municipal area to be prepared in such form and manner and 
containing such particulars with respect to each land and building, as 
may be prescribed.”. 

9. In the principal Act, section 98 shall be omitted. 


10. In the principal Act, in sub-section (1) of section 99, — 

(i) for the words “assessment list” occurring twice, the words 
“property list” shall be substituted; and 

(ii) clause (d) shall be omitted. 

11. In the principal Act, for section 100, the following section shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“100. New property list. — It shall be at the discretion of the 
Corporation to prepare for the whole or any part of the municipality a 
new property list every year.”. 

12. In the principal Act, in sub-section (1) of section 104, for the words 
“annual value”; the words “property tax” shall be substituted. 


13. In the principal Act, in the proviso to section 127, for the words “one 
per centum”, the words “one and a half per centum” shall be substituted. 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), OCT. 1, 2012 
(ASVN. 9, 1934 SAKA) 


249 


14. In the principal Act, in section 128, — 

(I) in sub-section ( 1 ) , — 

(i) in clause (b), for the sign existing at the end, the sign 

shall be substituted; 

(ii) after clause (b), the following clause shall be added, 
namely; — 

"(c) property tax.”; 

(II) in sub-section (3), — 

(i) for the sign existing at the end, the sign shall be 
substituted; and 

(ii) the following proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that no rebate shall be allowed in case of 
property tax ”. 

15. In the principal Act, sections 133, 134, 135, 136 and 137 shall be 
omitted. 


16. In the principal Act, for section 1 39, the following section shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“139. Conditions of right to appeal. — No appeal shall be 
entertained under section 138 unless the amount, if any, in dispute in 
the appeal has been deposited by the appellant in the office of the 
Corporation.”. 

17. In the principal Act, in section 142, for the word “annual value”, 
existing in the marginal heading and sub-section (1), the words “property tax” 
shall be substituted. 

18. In the principal Act, in clause (c) of sub-section ( 1) of section 145, the 
word “annual” shall be omitted. 


19. In the principal Act, for section 146, the following section shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“146. Amendment of property list — (1) The authority may at 
any time amend the property list by inserting the name of any person 
whose name ought to have been or ought to be inserted, or by inserting 
any property which ought to have been or ought to be inserted, or by 
altering the details of any property which has been erroneously valued 


Amendment of 
section 128 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Omission of 
sections 133, 
134, 135,136 
and 137 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 

Substitution of 
section 139 in 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Amendment of 
section 142 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 

Amendment of 
section 145 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 

Substitution of 
section 146 in 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Amendment of 
section 309 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Validation. 


250 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), OCT. 1, 2012 

(ASVN. 9, 1934 SAKA) 

or assessed through fraud, accident or mistake, whether on the part of 
the authority or of the assessee, or in the case of a tax payable by the 
owner or the occupier by a change in the tenancy, after giving notice to 
any person affected by the amendment of a time, not less than one 
month from the date of service, at which the amendment is to be made. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub-section, the authority 
means the Zonal Taxation Officer or any officer authorized by the 
Commissioner of Municipal Corporation. 

(2) Any person interested in any such amendment may tender 
his objection to the Corporation in writing before the time fixed in the 
notice or orally or in writing at that time and shall be allowed an 
opportunity of being heard in support of the same in person, or by 
authorized agent, as he may think fit.”. 

20. For sub-section (5) of section 309 of the principal Act, the following 
sub-section shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(5) Any swine found straying in a public street or public place 
shall be removed by any officer or other employee of the corporation 
authorized by the Commissioner in this behalf. The swine so removed 
shall be disposed off by public auction or in such other manner and 
within such time, as the Commissioner may deem fit and the owner of 
such swine shall be punishable with imprisonment upto six months 
and it shall be a non-cognizable offence.”. 

21. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in any judgment, decree 
or order of any court or other authority to the contrary and notwithstanding that 
procedure laid down under section 87 of the principal Act has not been followed, 
the directions issued vide Haryana Government, Urban Development Department, 
Notification No. S.O. 14/47/2003-3XCII, dated the 30th September, 2003 as 
amended from time to time and Haryana Government, Urban Local Bodies 
Department (Committees), Notification No. S.0.46/H.A. 16/1994/S. 87 /2012, dated 
the 21st June, 2012 with regard to imposition of property tax, in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 87 read with sub-section (1) of 
section 149 of the principal Act, shall be deemed to have been validly issued 
after following procedure in accordance with the provisions of the pricnipal Act 
and accordingly, — 

(i) all acts, proceedings or things done or actions taken or which 
may have been done or taken by the Corporation and by the 
Government under the above mentioned notifications with 
regard to imposition and collection of property tax, be deemed 
to be, and to have always been done and taken in accordance 
with law and shall not be called in question before any court of 
law on this ground; 


251 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), OCT. 1, 2012 
(ASVN. 9. 1934 SAXA) 

-.■■■ — "»! ' ■*— 1,1.1 I 

(ii) no suit or other proceedings shell be maintained or continued in 
any court or before any authority in relation to imposition of 
property tax, so imposed under the above mentioned 
notifications; and 

(iii) no court or authority shall enforce a decree or order directing 
the cancellation of imposition of property tax due to not 
following the procedure as laid down under section 87 of the 
Act. 


MANJIT SINGH, 

Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
Law and Legislative Department. 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), APR. 2, 2013 
(CHTR. 12, 1935 SAKA) 


25 


PART-I 

HARYANA GOVERNMENT 
LAW AND LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 
Notification 
The 2nd April, 2013 

No. Leg. 4/2013. — The following Act of the Legislature of the State of 
Haryana received the assent of the Governor of Haryana on the 19th March, 2013, 
and is hereby published for general information: — 

HARYANA ACT NO. 2 OF 2013 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) 

ACT, 2013 

AN 

ACT 

further to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Sixty-fourth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows: — 

1. This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal Corporation short title 
(Amendment) Act, 2013. 

2. In the proviso of sub-section (4) of section 4 of the Haryana Municipal Amendment of 
Corporation Act, 1994, for the words “three years”, the words “three years and ,laryana Act lc ot- 
three months” shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted 1994 

with effect from the 10th October, 2008. 


MAN JIT SINGH, 

Administrative Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
Law and Legislative Department. 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.). SEPT. 26. 2013 33 

(ASVN. 4, 1935 SAKA) 

HARYANA GOVERNMENT 

LAW AND LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 
Notification 

The 26th September, 2013 

No. Leg. 15/2013. — The following Act of the Legislature of the 
State of Haryana received the assent of the Governor of Haryana on the 
25th September, 2013, and is hereby published for general information: — 

(HARYANA ACT NO. 12 OF 2013) 
The Haryana Municipal Corporation (Second Amendment) Act, 2013. 

AN 

ACT 

further to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of State of Haryana in the Sixty-fourth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows: — 

1. This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal Corporation (Second 
Amendment) Act, 2013. 

2. After clause (f) of sub-section ( I ) of section 1 6 1 of the Haryana Municipal 
Corporation Act, 1994 (hereinafter called the principal Act), the following clause 
shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(fa) all the properties, funds and dues alongwith*all the legal liabilities 
of the trust dissolved under sub-section (1) of section 105, vested in 
the State Government under clause (b) of sub-section (2) and 
transferred to the municipality under the proviso to clause (d) of 
sub-section (2) of section 105 of the Haryana Town Improvement 
Act, 2008 (36 of 2008);”. 

3. After section 263 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, 
namely: — 

“263A. Power to seal premises. — ( 1 ) The Commissioner may, 
at any time, before or after making an order under section 26 1 or 262 
may order to seal the premises. 

(2) Where any premises has been sealed, the Commissioner, 
may order such seal to be removed for the purpose of— 


Short title. 


Amendment of 
section 161 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


Insertion of 
section 263A in 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 


■a) allowing an opportunity to the owner to bring it in 
conformity with the sanctioned building plan as per 


Amendment of 
section 392 of 
Haryana Act 16 of 
1994. 


34 HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), SEPT. 26, 2013 

(ASVN. 4. 1935 SAKA) 


the provisions of this Act, rules or bye-laws framed 
thereunder within a period, which shall not exceed 
three months; or 

(b) allowing the functionaries of the Corporation to bring 
it in conformity with the sanctioned building plan as 
per the provisions of this Act, rules or bye-laws framed 
thereunder at the cost of the owner; or 

(c) demolition, at the cost of the owner. 

(3) No person shall remove such seal except — 

(a) under an order made by the Commissioner under sub- 
section (2); or 

(b) under an order of the appellate authority. 

(4) Where any order of sealing has been passed under sub- 
section (1), the owner may file an appeal before the Divisional 
Commissioner concerned within a period of seven days of passing 
of such order. The Divisional Commissioner may either reject the 
appeal or stay the order to allow the owner to bring the premises in 
accordance with the sanctioned building plan as per the provisions 
of this Act, rules or the bye-laws framed thereunder, with such 
conditions including furnishing of a bank guarantee of an amount, 
as deemed Fit. On failure of the owner to adhere to the conditions of 
the order, bank guarantee shall be revoked and the premises shall be 
liable for demolition, at the cost of the owner. Such cost shall be 
paid by the owner within a period of one month from the date of 
demolition of the said premises. 

(5) In the event of non-payment of the cost by the owner as 
per sub-section (3), the same shall be recoverable as arrears of land 
revenue.". 

In section 392 of the principal Act,— 

(i) the existing section shall be re-numbered as sub-section (1); 

(ii) under heading “I. Bye-laws relating to miscellaneous matters”, after 
clause (5), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(5A) regulate the laying of communication cables (underground 
as well as over ground), erection of communication towers 
and dish antennas established and maintained by private 
agencies as well as semi-Government agencies;". 


I 


« 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA ). SEPT. 26, 2013 35 

(ASVN. 4. 1935 SARA) 


(iii) after sub-section ( 1 ) so re-numbered, the following sub-section shall 
be added at the end. namely: — 

“(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1). the 
Government may, subject to previous publication, frame bye- 
laws applicable to all the Corporations to implement a policy 
decision of the Government or to have uniformity of bye- 
laws on any subject, on which a Corporation can frame bye- 
laws.”. 

5. In sub-section ( 1 ) of section 393 of the principat Act. — 

(i) in clause (c), for the sign “.” existing at the end, the sign shall be 
substituted; and 

(ii) after clause (c). the following proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that a breach or an abetment of a breach under 
clause (5A) under heading “I. Bye-laws relating to 
miscellaneous matters” of section 392, shall be punishable 
with a fine which shall not be less than one lac rupees and 
more than two lac rupees, and in the case of a continuing 
breach, with a further fine of two thousand rupees for every 
day during which the breach continues.”. 


Amendment of 
section 393 of 
Haryana Act 16 

of 1994. 


RAJ RAHUL GARG, 
Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
Law and Legislative Department. 


HARYANA GOVT. GAZ. (EXTRA.), APR. 1, 2014 143 

(CHTR. 11. 1936 SAKA) 

HARYANA GOVERNMENT 
LAW AND LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 

Notification 
The 1st April, 2014 

No, Leg. 15/2014. — The following Act of the Legislature of the State of 
Haryana received the Assent of the Governor of Haryana on the 22nd March, 2014, 
and is hereby published for general information : — 

(HARYANA ACT NO. 12 OF 20 14) 

THE HARYANA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION 
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 2014 

An 

ACT 

further to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, / 994. 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Sixty-fifth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows : — 

1. This Act may be called the Haryana Municipal Corporation Short title. 
(Amendment) Act, 2014. 

2. In section 2 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (hereinafter Amendment of 

section l ot 

called the principal Act), — Haryana Act 16 of 

(i) after clause (9), the following clause shall be inserted, namely : 1994 

‘(9A) “Director” means the Director, Urban Local Bodies, 

Department, Haryana and includes any other officer for 
the time being appointed by the Government, by 
notification in the Official Gazette, to exercise and perform 
all or any of the powers and functions of the Director 
under this Act and the rules made thereunder;’; 

(ii) after clause (51), the following clause shall be inserted, namely : 

‘(5 1 A) “Secretary” means the Secretary to Government. Haryana, 

Urban Local Bodies Department; . 

3. For sub-sec, ion (1) of section 346 of the principal Ac,, the following 
sub-section shall be substituted, namely : Haryana Act 16 of 

“(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the ,994- 
Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restricuono 
Unregulated Development Act, 1963 (Punjab Act 41 of 1963), the 


144 


Amendment of 
sections 346, 347, 
348, 349, 350, 
350A and 350B 
of Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 

Insertion of 
section 350D in 
Haryana 
Act 16 of 1994, 


HARYANA GOVT, GAZ, (EXTRA.), APR„ 1, 2014 
(CITTR. 11, 1936 SAKA) 

Director may, with the prior approval of the Government, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, declare any area within the Municipal area to 
be controlled area. In case any area within the Municipal area has already 
been declared as controlled area under the above said Act, then it shall 
be deemed to be controlled area for the purposes of this Act and if any 
plan has already been notified for such controlled area under the 
aforesaid Act then it shall also be deemed to be the plan for the purposes 
of this Act.'’. _ 


4. In sections 346, 347, 348, 349, 350, 350A and 350B of the principal 
Act, for the word “Commissioner”, wherever occurring, the word “Director” shall 

be substituted. 


Amendment of 
section 398 of 
Haryana Act 16 
of 1994. 

Amendment of 
section 401 of 
Haryana Act 16 of 
1994 


Repeal and 
savings. 


5. After section 350C of the principal Act, the following section shall be 

\ 

inserted, namely : — 

“350D. Effect of other laws.-The acts already done under the 
provisions of the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas 
Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963 (Punjab Act 41 of 
1963) within the Municipal area shall be deemed to have been validly 

done under this Act.”. 

6. In sub-section (2) of section 398 of the principal Act, after the words 
"the Commissioner”, the words “or the Director” shall be inserted. 

7. After sub-section (2) of section 401 of the principal Act, the following 

sub-section shall be added, namely : 

"(3) The Director may, with the approval of the Government, by an 
order in writing delegate any of its powers and functions under the 
Act or the rules made thereunder to any officer as may be speu le 

in such order.”. 

8. (1) The Haryana Municipal Corporation (Third Amendment) Ordinance. 
2013 (Haryana Ordinance No.3 of 2014). is hereby repealed. 

h « 

"„pdrr:'^„ ::r,he ^ « — * <** **• 


RAJ RAHUL GARG, 
Secretary to Government Haryana, 
Law and Legislative Department. 


